ACTIV8MATETypical Analysis: NPK: 8-1-4 + Trace elementsGeneral Application Rate: Apply fortnightly or as required75-100ml/100sqm5 - 7.5 Litres/HaMix well before use.Activ8mate is both a fertiliser and soil inoculant that can in turn feed the lawn, plants, trees etc, providing essential nutrients. With a myriad of key ingredients, it also provides food to soil microbes. This product combines the best of both organic and traditional products to make a great all-purpose liquid fertiliser and soil conditioner.Applications:Watering can: 10?30ml per 9 litres of water.Hose?on Bottle (Seasol/weed ‘n feed etc.) or sprayer: mix the minimum amount of water with the product/s to allow you to cover the required area/s. For example, for my front yard, using an old weed n feed hose?on bottle I add 100ml of each Seaweed Secrets, Activ8mate and Natures Soil Wetter, then top up with enough water to allow you to evenly cover it using the hose?on bottle (I add about 600ml water), then evenly hose?on.Hortex/Pressure/knapsack sprayer: You need about 15 litres (a little more or less won’t hurt) of water to be applied per 100sqm, so take that into consideration when applying. If you have a smaller sprayer, either do several smaller applications i.e. covering 50m at a time and repeat until the entire area is covered, or over a larger area spray with the required amount and if you haven’t used 15 litres/100sqm, give a light water?in. If using a Hortex sprayer on setting 2 without the restrictor, you shouldn’t need to add water, but if you do, just add as little amount to cover the required area.Activ8mate Liquid contains: 1. Fish liquid concentrate2. Blood and Bone3. Seaweed (kelp)4. Quality USA Humic and Fulvic acid5. Boosted with traditional fertilisers.6. Includes trace elements & micronutrients.Safe for Environmentally Sensitive Areas …Assessed and Graded by “Sustainable Gardening Australia”.Suitable for use on all turf and plantsBenefits:* Inoculates turf/grass & soil, aids in the conversion of “fertiliser” to complex plant nutrients.* Greens turf & lawn and slowly fertilises.* Improves disease resistance.* Powerful beneficial plant tonic* Buffers salts, increases micronutrient availability.* Promotes soil aeration/water penetration, reduces runoff.* helps stabilize nutrients in the rhizosphere where they remain available over a longer period of time.SAFETY GUIDELINES:Keep out of reach of children. May be harmful if swallowed. If eaten seek medical help.ALWAYS TRIAL BEFORE CHANGE. Before a new rate, product or application method is used, a small trial is recommended. Warranty of this material, either expressed or implied is limited to a guarantee of the composition as shown on this label in as much as uses are beyond the seller’s control. For the same reason, the seller is not liable for any injury to any living thing, crops, soils, or materials which may result from the use or storage of this material.As this is largely a mineral based fertiliser made from natural resources, the analysis may change slightly.Activ8EXTRATypical Analysis: 16-2-5 + Trace elementsGeneral Application Rate:75-100ml/100sqm – 7.5-10L per Ha20-30ml (1-2 capfuls) per 9L watering canFor best results, apply fortnightly during the warmer months. During cooler months, apply less often and/or at lower strength. Best applied all-year round to continue improving soil and feeding microbes.Agitate well before use.As there are many conditions that effect the exact amount needed and the frequency of application for each product, there is no one fits all solution. There are several ways our liquids can be applied:Watering can: mix the amount suggested (typically 10?30ml)/9 litres of water. Spread evenly across area to fertilise.Hose?on Bottle (Seasol/weed ‘n feed etc.) or hortex sprayer: mix the minimum amount of water with the product/s to allow you to cover the required area/s. For example, for my front yard, using an old weed n feed hose?on bottle I add 100ml of each Seaweed Secrets, Activ8mate or Activ8EXTRA and Natures Soil Wetter, then top up with enough water to allow you to evenly cover it using the hose?on bottle (I add about 600ml water), then evenly hose?on.Pressure/knapsack sprayer: You need about 15 litres (a little more or less won’t hurt) of water to be applied per 100m2, so take that into consideration when applying. If you have a smaller sprayer, either do several smaller applications i.e. covering 50m at a time and repeat until the entire area is covered, or over a larger area spray with the required amount and if you haven’t used 15 litres/100m2, give a light water?in. If using a Hortex sprayer on setting 2 without the restrictor, you shouldn’t need to add water, but if you do, just add as little amount to cover the required area.Boosted liquid fertiliserActiv8EXTRA is a biologically enhanced liquid fertiliser boosted with a range of organics to improves the soil and feed the existing beneficial soil microbes. Containing High Nitrogen for enriching soil to assist lawns, leafy green plants, and trees.Activ8EXTRA Liquid contains:* Traditional chemical nutrients (Nitrogen, Phosphorus, Potassium, and other essential nutrients)* Seaweed (kelp)* Fish* Blood and Bone* Quality USA Humates (Humus) / Fulvate incl. FulvicBenefits Incl.* Helps inoculate turf/grass & soil, aids in the conversion of “fertiliser” to complex plant nutrients* Enriches soil to provide feeding for plants* Buffers salts, increases micronutrient availability* Promotes soil aeration/water penetration, reduces runoff* Activ8EXTRA helps stabilize nutrients in the rhizosphere where they remain available over a longer period.SAFETY GUIDELINES:Keep out of reach of children. Harmful if swallowed. If eaten seek medical help.NOT COMPATIBLE WITH IRON BASED PRODUCTS.ALWAYS TRIAL BEFORE CHANGE. Before a new rate, product or application method is used, a small trial is recommended. Warranty of this material, either expressed or implied is limited to a guarantee of the composition as shown on this label in as much as uses are beyond the seller’s control. For the same reason, the seller is not liable for any injury to any living thing, crops, soils or materials which may result from the use or storage of this material.As this is largely a mineral based fertiliser made from natural resources, the analysis may change slightly.SEAWEED SECRETSSeaweed Secrets can be used at all times during a plant’s lifecycle, from seedlings to established plants and lawns. It can be used prior to and during flowering and fruiting sequences. It is a beneficial soil conditioner, super-boosted with added Humic and Fulvic acids, which unlock nutrient “Tie-Up” (natural Chelator).Using a concentrated liquid seaweed solution for lawns and gardens offers several benefits:* Nutrient-rich: Ascophyllum nodosum's (a type of Seaweed) attributes include 77 minerals, 17 amino acids, chelating agents, and complex sugars with the added benefit of Humic and Fulvic Acid (high quality). Kelp is undoubtedly an indispensable soil enrichment product. These nutrients help promote healthy plant growth and development.* Improved soil health: Seaweed contains beneficial compounds that enhance soil structure and fertility. It helps improve soil moisture retention, aeration, and drainage, leading to healthier root systems and better nutrient uptake by plants.* Enhanced plant growth: The nutrients and growth-promoting hormones present in liquid seaweed stimulate plant growth and development. It can result in increased leaf and stem growth, improved flowering and fruiting, and overall plant vigour.* Stress tolerance: Seaweed extracts contain natural compounds that help plants withstand various environmental stresses, such as drought, heat, cold, and disease. These compounds enhance the plant's ability to cope with adverse conditions and promote resilience.* Increased nutrient absorption: The organic compounds in seaweed act as chelating agents, making nutrients more available to plants. This improves nutrient absorption and utilisation, leading to healthier and more productive plants.* Disease and pest resistance: Seaweed extracts have been found to enhance the plant's natural defence mechanisms, making them more resistant to diseases and pests. It can help reduce the need for chemical pesticides and fungicides.* Environmental sustainability: Liquid seaweed is a sustainable and eco-friendly option for fertilizing lawns and gardens. It is derived from renewable marine resources and does not contribute to water pollution or harm beneficial soil organisms.* Safe for humans and pets: Seaweed extracts are non-toxic and safe to use around humans and pets. They do not pose any health risks and can be applied without the need for protective clothing or equipment.Overall, using a concentrated liquid seaweed solution can improve the health and productivity of lawns and gardens in a natural and sustainable way.APPLICATION RATES - Shake well before use.HOME GARDENER:1ml per 1sqm100ml per 100sqmApply fortnightly or as required.BROADACRE:6 - 10 Litres per hectare in enough water to provide thorough coverage or 1000 litres of water, reapplying 2-6 times during the growing season. It may be water run, side dressed, mixed with soil applied with liquid nutrients or sprayed directly on the soil.Added with nutrients:Add 2-4 litres per Hectare mixed with the liquid nutrients. Add to a partially filled tank. Include with every application.SPRINKLER OR DRIP IRRIGATION:Smaller amounts may be applied in every irrigation instead of only one application. Not corrosive to pipes or nozzles and will not plug them.TRANSPLANTING OR CUTTING:Mix 4 litres per 750 litres of solution.Mix well before use.AGRICULTURAL SPECIFIC RECOMMENDATIONS:Vegetables600ml per 100L water up to 3.5L/ha equivalent. Apply every 2 weeks or as required.        Orchards & Vineyards600ml per 100L water up to 5L/ha equivalent. Apply every 4 weeks or as required.Ornamentals & Turf600ml per 100L water up to 3.5L/ha equivalent. Apply every 4 weeks or as required.        Pasture1 – 3L/ha in 60 – 100L water. Apply as required.Broadacre Crops0.6 – 2L/ha in 60 – 100L water, depending on canopy closure. Apply as required.Spot-Spraying35ml per 10L water. Apply as required.FERTIGATION:Vegetables6 – 10L/ha. Apply every 2 weeks or as required.  Orchards, Vineyards, Ornamentals & Turf6 - 10L/ha. Apply every 4 weeks or as required.Typical AnalysisNitrogen 0.04-0.07%Phosphorous 0.05 – 0.15%Potassium 2500 – 6000ppmSulphur 400 – 1200ppmCalcium < 0.01%Magnesium < 0.40%Boron 0.13%Iron < 0.10%Zinc 1 – 5ppmpH 8 - 9SAFETY GUIDELINES:Keep out of reach of children. May be harmful if swallowed. If eaten seek medical help.NOT COMPATIBLE WITH IRON BASED PRODUCTS.ALWAYS TRIAL BEFORE CHANGE. Before a new rate, product or application method is used, a small trial is recommended. Warranty of this material, either expressed or implied is limited to a guarantee of the composition as shown on this label in as much as uses are beyond the seller’s control. For the same reason, the seller is not liable for any injury to any living thing, crops, soils, or materials which may result from the use or storage of this material.As this is largely a mineral based fertiliser made from natural resources, the analysis may change slightlyQuantum HFor agricultural use onlyAPPLICATION RATESHOME:1ml per 1sqm100ml per 100sqmApply fortnightly or as required.BROADACRE:6 - 10 Litres per hectare in enough water to provide thorough coverage or 1000 litres of water, reapplying 2-6 times during the growing season. It may be water run, side dressed, mixed with soil applied with liquid nutrients or sprayed directly on the soil. Added with nutrients: Add 2-4 litres of Quantum H per Hectare mixed with the liquid nutrients. Add to a partially filled tank. Include with every application.SPRINKLER OR DRIP IRRIGATION:Smaller amounts may be applied in every irrigation instead of only one application. Not corrosive to pipes or nozzles and will not plug them.TRANSPLANTING OR CUTTING:Mix 4 litres of Quantum H per 750 litres of solution.Mix well before use – Dilute in at least 1:20 in water. AGRICULTURAL SPECIFIC RECOMMENDATIONS:Vegetables600ml per 100L water up to 3.5L/ha equivalent. Apply every 2 weeks or as required.         Orchards & Vineyards600ml per 100L water up to 5L/ha equivalent. Apply every 4 weeks or as required.Ornamentals & Turf600ml per 100L water up to 3.5L/ha equivalent. Apply every 4 weeks or as required.         Pasture1 – 3L/ha in 60 – 100L water. Apply as required.Broadacre Crops0.6 – 2L/ha in 60 – 100L water, depending on canopy closure. Apply as required.Spot-Spraying35ml per 10L water. Apply as required.FERTIGATION:Vegetables6 – 10L/ha. Apply every 2 weeks or as required.   Orchards, Vineyards, Ornamentals & Turf6 - 10L/ha. Apply every 4 weeks or as required.Plant Doctor Quantum H helps improve, build & repair soil structure. It helps clean the soil from heavy metals/pesticides/herbicides etc and is a great microbe food. Quantum H is a premium humic acid solution extracted from Agri-Plus, a high-grade Leonardite ore. It has a high concentration of short-chain humic acid and fulvic acid molecules, and in addition is a very plant active liquid humic acid extract. It is manufactured using proprietary methods of extraction, settling, and handling, offering a lower sludge content and is easier to handle than other humic acid products - making it the industry benchmark.* IMPROVE SOIL* FEED BENEFICIAL MICROBES* 100% ORGANIC BASED, NATURALLY RESOURCEDHumic’s are the most natural and organic way to provide plants and soil with a concentrated dose of essential nutrients, vitamins, and trace elements. They are complex molecules that exist naturally in soils, peats, oceans, and fresh waters. The best and most concentrated sources of humic acids are derived from a compressed organic compound known as Leonardite derived from freshwater deposits. Leonardite is the completely decomposed remnants of living organisms derived from 70 million years of humification. Like manures and other organic compounds are used to build richly fertile compost, so too Leonardite is the end result of nature’s own composting derived at a time when the earth had minimal pollutants. As a comparison, Peat is derived from only a few thousand years of decomposed organic matter. BENEFITS:* Powerful chelating agent when soil applied.* Increases access to soil nutrients.* Increases & stimulates beneficial microbial activity.* Increase soil moisture retention.* Buffer soil pH.* Build and repair soil structure.* Helps bind salt.WHEN TO USE:* When organic carbon levels are low* When valuable soil nutrients are locked up and unavailable* Can be applied with fertilisers.* Can be used at any time of the year on all plants.* Can be applied to all crops, including vegetable crops, trees, and vines. Staining may occur.* Can be used to all soil types.* Compatible with almost all fertiliser, nutrients, pesticides, herbicides, fungicide, and defoliants.* Can be mixed with almost all liquid fertilisers and liquid nutrients, including seeding, pre-planting, side dress and water runs. SAFETY GUIDELINES:Keep out of reach of children. May be harmful if swallowed. If eaten seek medical help.NOT COMPATIBLE WITH IRON PRODUCTS.ALWAYS TRIAL BEFORE CHANGE. Before a new rate, product or application method is used, a small trial is recommended. Warranty of this material, either expressed or implied is limited to a guarantee of the composition as shown on this label in as much as uses are beyond the seller’s control. For the same reason, the seller is not liable for any injury to any living thing, crops, soils, or materials which may result from the use or storage of this material.As this is largely a mineral based fertiliser made from natural resources, the analysis may change slightly.Plant Doctor Liquid Iron Fertiliser - 7% Iron; 3% SulphurSupercharged with Fulvic acidProvides a highly available form of liquid Iron (Fe) with Sulphur to produce higher Chlorophyll levels resulting in rich green colour in leaves & help correct to iron deficiencies in your lawn, plants & crops. The added Fulvic Acid will ensure quick uptake of the nutrients to provide fast results.* Can be applied to the leaves (Foliar) or directly to the soil.* Will help maintain plant growth & deep green colour in turf & plants.* Can coagulate with humic based products like our fertilisers & soil conditioners - do a small “jar-test” first.* Will help correct yellowing in new leaf growth.Iron (Fe) is a vital micro-nutrient required by plants in order to form chlorophyll. And chlorophyll is what gives plants/lawn their green colour. Iron deficiency occurs when there is either not enough iron in the soil, or the iron is tied up and unavailable due to high pH (alkaline soil), or poor aeration. It can also be induced by an over-abundance of calcium in the soil or an over-application of lime.Iron chlorosis is the name of the condition found in plants that are iron deficient. It is one of the most common micro-nutrient problems of ornamentals, shrubs, vines, small fruits, and trees. Leaves of affected plants are yellow, light green, or white with distinct green veins.Application rate:Minimum dilution rate: 1:50ApplicationRateCommentsTurf150-400ml/100sqm1.5-4L/HaApply every 4 weeks in growing season or as required.Ornamental Plants10-25ml/10litres water100-250ml/100sqmApply every 4 weeks in growing season or as required.Vegetables150-300ml/100sqm1.5-3L/HaApply fortnightly or as required.Trees, Fruits, Nuts & Grapevines150-300ml/100sqm1.5-3L/HaApply every 6-8 weeks or as required.Broadacre crops3-8L/HaApply as required with normal program    TYPICAL ANALYSIS W/VIron (Fe) = 7%Sulphur (S)= 3%Warnings:Do not spray in hot weather conditions. Not compatible with many products. Check the labels and do a jar test first.Iron can stain paths, concrete, paving, clothes and skin, so always wear old clothes, wash hands after use and be careful when applying near concrete and paths etc. Wash off immediately any lasting damage. Keep away from water sources such as ponds, pools etc. Safe for childern & pets when dry.Iron deficiency in many plants & lawns is an indication of high pH or alkaline soil. If yellowing persists or returns rapidly after treatment, soil pH should be checked and adjusted if necessary.Follow application directions as excess liquid iron can lead to other problems, such as zinc and manganese deficiencies. While liquid iron provides immediate relief for plants & soil, it is not an adequate long-term solution for an iron deficiency. Keeping plants/Lawn in well-drained soil amended with sulphur to reduce the pH level can help iron in the soil become more available to plants.NATURES SOIL WETTERSuper concentrated plant-derived non-petrochemical liquid surfactant / wetter & soil conditionerAPPLICATION RATE* Home Garden and Lawns: 100ml/100sqm (2-4 weekly)* Potted plants: 10ml/watering can (monthly)* Bowling & Golf Greens: 100ml/100sqm (2-4 weekly)* Fairways: 50-75ml/100sqm (4 weekly)* Pasture/Turf Management: 10L per Hectare (in minimum 600L water)SPECIALISED APPLICATION DETAILS* Seed Treatment: soak seed in solution (10ml/bucket water) overnight* Beneficial Microbe Stimulation: .....20L/Ha (200ml/100sqm) every 8 weeks* Sodium Management: 1-2L with every 2nd Irrigation* Detoxification-Chemical Residues: 20L per Hectare (200ml/100sqm) often 2 or 3 applications will be required.Plant Doctor Nature’s Soil Wetter combines premium complex organic compounds with cutting edge colloidal technology to produce an environmentally friendly, concentrated, predominantly plant derived soil wetting agent and soil conditioner.It helps break the surface tension of soils to ensure the soil doesn't repel liquids, improves water penetration and holding capacity. Regular applications of Nature's Soil Wetter will help improve the soil structure of sandy soils and help break down clay soils.Suitable for all environmentally sensitive areas incl. turf, lawns, golf greens, garden areas, sandy soils and clay soils, safe for pot plants, vegetables, fruit trees, natives etc.Nature's Soil Wetter is Non-Toxic and has no Petro-Chemicals, Phosphates, harsh chemicals or solvents.NATURE'S SOIL WETTER BENEFITS* Substantially reduces the surface tension of water, improving infiltration into a hydrophobic soil surface. Improving hard to wet soils improved dramatically.* Increases plant-available water retention in hydrophobic sandy soils.* Excellent for Moisture stress and dry patch* Regular use improves soil, allowing it to hold fertiliser and water more efficiently.* Restores, renews lifeless soils* Helps remove toxic residues, heavy metals & binds salts* Increases longevity of Nitrogen (e.g. Urea up to 80 days)* Improves soil crumb structure* pH Buffer i.e. helps reduce/rectify pH extremes/issues* Saves time, labour & moneyProperties* Powerful & concentrated* Effective immediately* Environmentally FriendlyFoliar Nitrogen boost* Nitrogen Stabilization: Include 10% of 'Nature's Soil Wetter' with your nitrogen source, i.e. 2 Litre/ 20kg Nitrogen. Compatible Nitrogen sources include Potassium nitrate, Urea, ammonium nitrateHANDLING AND MIXING INSTRUCTIONS* Mix gently before use.* For best results water-in lightly after application.* May be incompatible with acidic materials including some sulphate-based trace elements and phosphate fertilisers. Jar Test if unsure of compatibility.* Keep out of reach of children.* Not compatible with Iron based products.(NSWL)MAX GREENThe Plant Doctor range has been created using the science of nature, using the finest ingredients available. MaxGreen provides a highly available form of liquid Iron (Fe) and Nitrogen (N) to produce a rich green colour in leaves & help correct iron deficiencies in your lawn.The addition of Fulvic acid will supercharge the nutrient uptake providing fast results. It will also help to prolong the life of the nutrients, holding them for longer where they areIron (Fe) is a vital micro-nutrient plants require to form chlorophyll. And chlorophyll is what gives plants/lawns their green colour. Iron deficiency occurs when there is either insufficient iron in the soil or the iron is tied up and unavailable due to high pH (alkaline soil) or poor aeration. It can also be induced by an overabundance of calcium in the soil or an over-application of lime.Iron chlorosis is the name of the condition found in plants that are iron deficient. It is one of the most common micro-nutrient problems of ornamentals, shrubs, vines, small fruits, and trees. The leaves of affected plants are yellow, light green, or white with distinct green veins.TYPICAL ANALYSIS (w/v)Nitrogen (N) 16%Iron (Fe) 5%Sulphur (S) 2%Provide a light water in after application.WARNING - Avoid applying in hot weather. Not compatible with many products. Check the labels and do a jar test first.Product will stain (concrete/clothes/skin). Apply with care and wash hands after use. Keep away from water sources (ponds, pools, etc.) Iron deficiency can indicate a high pH or alkaline level in soil. If yellowing persists or returns rapidly after treatment, check soil pH and adjust if necessary. Intended to provide immediate relief for plants and soil, however, is an inadequate long-term solution for iron deficiency. DO NOT SWALLOW. Product may act as an irritant. Avoid inhalation and contact with the eyes & skin. Keep out of reach of children. Store sealed in a cool place.Lawn Lovers Pro Pack.Made famous by lawn legend Ben Sims from Lawn Tips, the Lawn Lovers Pro Pack Bundle provides the essential combination to get your lawn to the next level. With the inclusion of Activ8Extra, Iron and Stimulizer, it won’t be long before your neighbours become envious of your great-looking lawn. The Plant Doctor range has been created using the science of nature, using the finest ingredients available. Each product has been individually selected to provide the required balance of nutrients to help your soil remain healthy and disease free throughout the hottest summer and coldest winter. The bundle includes the following: -Seaweed SecretsIt helps reduce the impact of heat, moisture, and cold stress. Unlocks nutrient "Tie-Up" (natural Chelator) and provides a wide range of minerals and trace elements, which helps feed microbial activity in the soil.Benefits: 77 minerals | 17 amino acids | Chelating agents and complex sugars | Humic and Fulvic Acid.Activ8ExtraIt helps inoculate turf/grass & soil, aids in the conversion of "fertiliser" to complex plant nutrients, enrich the soil to provide feeding for plants, buffers salts, increases micronutrient availability, promotes soil aeration/water penetration, reduces runoff and helps stabilise nutrients in the rhizosphere where they remain available over a more extended period.Benefits: Traditional N.P.K Fertiliser 16-2-5 | Supercharged with other essential nutrients | Seaweed (kelp) | Fish | Blood and Bone | Quality Humic and Fulvic acidsQuantum HQuantum-H helps improve, build & repair soil structure. It helps clean the soil from heavy metals/pesticides/herbicides etc. and is a great microbe food. Benefits: Premium humic acid solution | A high-grade Leonardite ore | Short-chain humic acid and fulvic acid molecules.Liquid IronIron (Fe) is a hardy micro-nutrient plant required to form chlorophyll. Chlorophyll is what gives plants/lawns their green colour. This is what helps give lawns their beautiful deep-green colour.Benefits: 7% Iron, 3% Sulphur | Always apply during the coolest part of the day | Can be mixed with Stimulizer concentrate.StimulizerIncrease uptake of foliar-applied fertilisers, insecticides, herbicides & fungicides. Stimulizer-chelated materials rapidly enter the plant membranes (as little as 4hrs). Increases & stimulates beneficial soil microbial activity & reduces harmful microbes. It has a unique capacity to readily dissolve minerals & trace elements. Benefits: This unique formula is a 'Trade Secret' invented by Plant Doctors' founder, Daniel Fitzhenry. Stimulizer has been used by Hydroponics Growers and other professional gardeners and farmers throughout Australia and around the world—one of the rare ingredients that can be mixed with Iron concentrate.CoverageThe Plant Doctor range of fertilisers and soil inoculants provides outstanding coverage due to our ongoing desire to manufacture and sell the best-performing, value-for-money products. Most of our range requires as little as 1 ml of concentrate per square metre (100 ml per 100 sqm). For example, our 1-litre Seaweed Secrets will treat up to 1000 sqm of lawn and garden. With a retail price of just $14.95, backed by a 90-day total satisfaction money-back guarantee, it's not hard to see why Plant Doctor has become the product of choice for gardeners all around Australia. What do the new sizes mean?Based on the example in the Coverage section, we have developed the following guide.City (Smaller lot sizes) 1-litre range can treat up to 1000 square metres. Metro (Medium lot sizes) 4 & 5-litre range treats 4000 to 5000 square metres. Rural (Large lot sizes) 10 Litres will treat up to 10,000 square metres. Be sure to download our Product Usage Guide on our website to help you understand how and when to apply each product. ApplicationYou can watch our video here  https://youtu.be/E50vntUF3Gs, which will help explain the different application methods. CHAMPION Sustained Release Mineral Fertiliser is designed to provide an initial charge for the turf then provide sustained nutrition for up to 3 months.CHAMPION mineral fertiliser mini-prill “greens-grade” is very efficient, it reduces leaching by capturing free nutrients and storing them for release to the lawn and beneficial soil microbes on demand. It is specially designed as an excellent base for greening turf, via its unique sustained release mechanism, being ideal for all species of Turf/grass, particularly suited to greens and low-cut lawns.CHAMPION BENEFITS* CHAMPION mineral fertiliser is a revolutionary premium fertiliser that contains VolcaMin Zeolite, (a SUPER-SPONGE) natures molecular sieve, and VolcaMin's negative molecular attraction holds the positive ions of many elements, like iron fillings to a magnet.* CHAMPION fertiliser nutrients cannot be washed out once absorbed by the VolcaMin, neither will the product 'Dump' as some 'Polymer coats' do, under extreme hot conditions, but slowly releases to the turf/grass for up to 3 months through 'Cation Exchange'.* This means reduced leaching, (nutrient loss) & run-off into waterways and the VolcaMin prolongs the life of the Nitrogen, Phosphorus and some other trace elements.* VolcaMin reduces nitrogen losses through evaporation, volatilization and loss through microbe consumption. In essence the VolcaMin acts as a safety-net. This is NASA Technology! .....on NASA's website they develop Zeolite in outer space to "reduce pollution and to reduce costs"....* With the addition of VolcaMin, the Phosphate undergoes a chemical reaction, bonding Calcium and releases Phosphorus more readily than previously encountered. This is where our product is UNIQUE, the positive (+) charged cations of Calcium, Potassium, Magnesium etc. are held by the strongly negatively (-) charged VolcaMin, where it becomes an improved sustained release product. This results in a lot less leaching of valuable nutrients into the environment and that makes CHAMPION mineral fertiliser more cost effective and safer for our rivers, reefs and other waterways.* High in Silica, CHAMPION is the TURF TOUGHNER! Silica helps build healthier and stronger plant cells which increases resistance/tolerance to disease. Silica Silicon helps to combat problems like stress from heat or cold, drought, heavy foot traffic.* Added carbon (Humic acid) contained in CHAMPION mineral fertiliser is a microbe ‘Activator', that helps bind salt and assists in improving soils or 'growing mediums'/potting mixes e.g. lacking in Humus.APPLICATION RATES:TURF & LAWN: 20-40g/sqm (2-4kg/100sqm)Bowling & Golf Greens: 2-4kg/100sqm (200-400kg/Ha)After application, provide a light water-in. Do not apply in heat of the day or when temperature is above 30’C.Can be applied to most other plants and trees too. If unsure, conduct a small trial first.TYPICAL ANALYSIS (w/v)Nitrogen (N)16.82%Phosphorus (P)1.14%Potassium (K)9.13%Carbon (C)6.85%Silica (Si)8.03%Sulphur (S)0.86%Calcium (Ca)3.77%Trace elements:Iron (Fe)3.15%Magnesium (Mg)0.87%Zinc (Zn)8.1mg/kgManganese (Mn)77.5mg/kgCopper (Cu)2.6mg/kgBoron (B)0.5mg/kgMolybdenum (Mo)0.01mg/kgCobalt (Co)3.0mg/kgSTORAGE & HANDLING:Store in a cool, dry area. Isolate from incompatible substances.CONDITIONS OF SALE:Every care is taken during the manufacture of this product. No control can be exercised over storage, handling, mixing, application, use, weather, plant or soil conditions.No responsibility or liability for any failure in performance, losses, damages or injuries will be accepted under any circumstances whatsoever.CHAMPION Sustained Release Mineral Fertiliser is designed to provide an initial charge for soil enrichment, then to provide sustained nutrients for up to 3 months.TYPICAL ANALYSIS (w/v) 15:3:8 + 3% (Fe)Error! Filename not specified.Nitrogen (N)15.124%Phosphorus (P)3.05%Potassium (K)8.93%Carbon (C)6.22%Silica (Si)7.31%Sulphur (S)3.85 %Calcium (Ca)1.81%Trace elements:Iron (Fe)3.42%Magnesium (Mg)0.92%Zinc (Zn)8.10 mg/kgManganese (Mn)77.50 mg/kgCopper (Cu)2.60 mg/kgBoron (B)0.50 mg/kgMolybdenum (Mo)0.01 mg/kgCobalt (Co)3.0 mg/kgAPPLICATION RATES:TURF & LAWN: 20-40g/sqm (2-4kg/100sqm)FAIRWAYS: 200-400kg/HaPasture: 200-400kg/HaAfter application, provide a light water-in. Do not apply in heat of the day or when temperature is above 30’C.Can be applied around most other plants and trees. If unsure, conduct a small trial first.STORAGE & HANDLING:Store in a cool, dry area. Isolate from incompatible substances.CONDITIONS OF SALE:Every care is taken during the manufacture of this product. No control can be exercised over storage, handling, mixing, application, use, weather, plant or soil conditions.No responsibility or liability for any failure in performance, losses, damages or injuries will be accepted under any circumstances whatsoever.CHAMPION mineral fertiliser is very efficient, it reduces leaching by capturing free nutrients and storing them for release to the lawn and beneficial soil microbes on demand. It is specially designed as an excellent base to enrich soil, via its unique sustained release mechanism, being ideal for all on Turf/grass, particularly suited to fairways, tees and lawns.CHAMPION BENEFITSo CHAMPION mineral fertiliser is a revolutionary premium fertiliser that contains VolcaMin Zeolite, (a SUPER-SPONGE) natures molecular sieve, and VolcaMin's negative molecular attraction holds the positive ions of many elements, like iron fillings to a magnet.o CHAMPION fertiliser nutrients cannot be washed out once absorbed by the VolcaMin, neither will the product 'Dump' as some 'Polymer coats' do, under extreme hot conditions, but slowly releases to the turf/grass for up to 3 months through 'Cation Exchange'.o This means reduced leaching, (nutrient loss) & run-off into waterways and the VolcaMin prolongs the life of the Nitrogen, Phosphorus and some other trace elements.o VolcaMin reduces nitrogen losses through evaporation, volatilization and loss through microbe consumption. In essence the VolcaMin acts as a safety-net. This is NASA Technology! .....on NASA's website they use Zeolite in outer space to "reduce pollution and to reduce costs"....o With the addition of VolcaMin, the Phosphate undergoes a chemical reaction, bonding Calcium and releases Phosphorus more readily than previously encountered. This is where our product is UNIQUE, the positive (+) charged cations of Calcium, Potassium, Magnesium etc. are held by the strongly negatively (-) charged VolcaMin, where it becomes an improved sustained release product. This results in a lot less leaching of valuable nutrients into the environment and that makes CHAMPION mineral fertiliser more cost effective and safer for our rivers, reefs and other waterways.o High in Silica, CHAMPION is the TURF TOUGHNER! Silica helps build healthier and stronger plant cells which increases resistance/tolerance to disease. Silica helps to combat problems like stress from heat or cold, drought, heavy foot traffic.* Product Reviews* Shipping CalculatorBACK IN STOCK! NEW SIZE 20kg bag!For agricultural use only* HELPS STABILISE NITROGEN* DETOXIFIES VARIOUS POLLUTANTS* STRONGER HEALTHIER PLANTS* IMPROVES SOIL* FEEDS BENEFICIAL MICROBESHumics are the most natural and organic way to provide plants and soil with a concentrated dose of essential nutrients, vitamins and trace elements. They are complex molecules that exist naturally in soils, peats, oceans and fresh waters. The best and most concentrated sources of humic acids are derived from a compressed organic compound known as Leonardite derived from fresh water deposits. Leonardite is the completely decomposed remnants of living organisms derived from 70 million years of humification. Like manures and other organic compounds are used to build richly fertile compost, so too Leonardite is the end result of nature’s own composting derived at a time when the earth had minimal pollutants. As a comparison, Peat is derived from only a few thousand years of decomposed organic matter. Plant Dr Humic will help you grow plants like never before.BENEFITS:* Add to Nitrogen, Urea etc to help stabilise it. Reduces leaching and volatilisation.* Powerful chelating agent when soil applied.* Increases root growth and healthy root development for increased access to soil nutrients.* Increases & stimulates beneficial microbial activity & quickly reduces harmful microbes.* Increase soil moisture retention.* Increases yield and plants immune system.* Stimulate cell elongation and division.* Detoxifies various pollutants in the soil (herbicides, pesticides, heavy metals, etc.)* Buffer soil pH.* Increase crop yield.* Build and repair soil structure.WHEN TO USE:* When organic carbon levels are low* When valuable soil nutrients are locked up and unavailable* When strong new root growth is needed* Reduce disease* Apply with fertiliserCan be used at any time of the year on all plants.Can be applied to all crops, including vegetable crops, trees and vines.Staining may occur.Liquid Humic can be used to all soil types.Compatible with almost all fertiliser, nutrients, pesticides, herbicides, fungicide and defoliants.Can be mixed with almost all liquid fertilisers and liquid nutrients, including seeding, pre-planting, side dress and water runs.APPLICATION RATE:Lawn & Turf: 2.0-5.0kg/100sqm          (200-500kg/Ha)Plants & Garden: 2.0-5.0kg/100sqm  (Handful/pot)Potting Mix: Add at 2.5-10%(0.5 - 2.0kg/25 litres or 20-80kg/m3)Vegetables: 1.25-3.75kg/100sqm      (125-375kg/Ha)Fruit: 3.75-5.0kg/100sqm                         (375-500kg/Ha)Cereals: 2.0-3.75kg/100sqm                  (200-375kg/Ha)Broadacre: 2.0-5.0kg/100sqm           (200-500kg/Ha)VolcaMin(clinoptilolite Zeolite)Source - New ZelandNutrient Efficiency Systemfor HorticultureThe Complete in Soil Nutrient Management SolutionVolcaMin works as a fertiliser battery, charging when free nutrients are available, holding them from leaching and releasing them to plant demand as required.  Volcamin is not effected by temperature and reduces the leaching of nutrients under hot tropical conditions, holding them for use by the plant instead.Volcamin is also an excellent capillary distributor of water due its highly porous properties, assisting infiltration, holding water higher in the pot and distributing water and nutrients more evenly through the mix which is important especially under drip irrigation. It is used in several leading wetting agents.Use of Volcamin will soak up excess ammonium and other cations in mixes often released under hot conditions, preventing root burning.  Volcamin is marginally alkaline and a source of available calcium so its use with fertilisers can help buffer pH levels thus reducing the need for lime applications.Volcamin carries a negative ionic charge which naturally attracts positive charged cations like ammonium, potassium, magnesium and calcium. The open crystalline structure of Volcamin has many storage sites for these ions which hold naturally through a loose chemical bond. These fertiliser ions are available to plants. Volcamin has a very high cation exchange capacity and thus increases the mixes ability to hold and release nutrients. As cations are water soluble they escape from mixes by leaching.   Volcamin is the perfect planting partner as it is a natural wetting agent and distributor of water as well as an electrically charged fertiliser magnet.It helps water penetrate sandy non-wettable soils and will evenly distribute water around drippers and soak lines. It should be used in planting holes, mixed with the top 10-15cm of soils or a mulch.As a planting amendment, it makes a permanent difference as it won’t break down or be eaten by microbes in the soil. Volcamin has ten times the nutrient holding capacity per litre than peat and helps prevent environmental leaching of nutrients into waterways.VolcaMin Nutrient Efficiency System for Agriculture & PlantationsThe Complete in Soil Nutrient Management Solution  Incorporating VolcaMin into your soil conditioning and fertiliser program is a long term investment in the productivity of your soils and return on your fertiliser investment. Mixed into holes at planting, banded or applied around existing plantations or mixed with fertiliser blends, VolcaMin will improve plant available nutrient uptake and conversion to yield. Volcamin dramatically improves poor soils and as it doesn’t break down and is not consumed by microbes it is a permanent amendment and conditioner.o Reduces leaching dramaticallyo Selective for ammonium potassium calcium & magnesiumo Stores up to 2% of its own weight in molecular ammonium, potassium, calcium & magnesiumo Improves nutrient availabilityo Volcamin improves water infiltrationo Volcamin improves capillary distribution through the soilo Drains freely, won’t clog the soilo Solution to poor soils under tropical rainfallo Stores nutrients that are normally washed awayo Reduces environmental impact on streams & rivers from reduced farm nutrient run off   Malaysian Mangoes                              20th Aug 07                                                                                                                                         3 months laterEnables better growth through permanently improved water & nutrient retentiono Mixed in from 1% to 5% of root zone soilso Applied with Fertilisers o Natural wetting agento Total Porosity 42.4%o Water holding by volume 26.6%o Capillary water holding without loss of drainageo Nutrient holding through high cation exchangeo Permanent, isn’t consumed by microbes or plantso Selective for ammonium potassium calcium & magnesiumo Reduces leaching dramaticallyWithout Volcamin InclusionWith Volcamin Inclusiono Water and soluble fertilisers pass through the low cation exchange capacity soil profile with nothing to attract and hold themo Valuable nutrients are leached througho Plant available nutrition is pooro Particularly true of poor soils under tropical rainfallo Although drainage is good, water retention is pooro Runoff water becomes nutrient contaminated o Water and soluble fertilisers are attracted and held in the soil profile or growing media Valuable nutrients are not leached but exchanged onto the Volcamino Plant available nutrition is much better as the plants can harvest the Volcamino Hydraulic conductivity is not affectedo Capillary distribution is much bettero More water is held higher in the profileo Higher yields from better nutritiono Reduced Environmental leachate    Improved Nitrogen UptakeVolcaMin particular affinity to attract and hold ammonium enables it to catch and hold nitrogen fertilisers from leaching through the soil for maximum plant available nutrition. Plants readily extract the stored nitrogen they require from the Volcamin by active root uptake.University of New England; Department of Agronomy & Soil Science. Test of Lettuce and Reseda odorata into potting mixes at 8% by weight and Uralla (sandy granitic) soilConclusions:o The results of the trials using Volcamin were significant. o Volcamin addition produced considerable increases in plant growtho Volcamin reduces Nitrogen toxicity in early plant growth.          o Volcamin has the ability to retain nitrogen in the absorbed (NH4+) form against leachingo Volcamin improves the uptake of Nitrogen in plants and improves fertilizer utilizationo Volcamin improved uptake by plants by 175% in Potting mix    Improved Nitrogen Recovery from plant tissueCornell University USAo Recovery of applied Nitrogen from grass in Volcamin amended sand profileo For the sand profiles, the percentage of applied fertilizer N that was recovered in grass clippings ranged fromo 62% to 70% of the applied No The addition of 10% Volcamin to the sand resulted in a greater amount of the fertilizer N ending up in the bent grass clippingso 75% to 93% of the applied N.o This difference was most noticeable at the lower N application rate.o Adding 10% Volcamin to sand also resulted in substantially less nitrate leaching.o Leaching of NO3 reduced by 88%o Leaching of NH4 reduced by 99% VolcaMin with VolcaMinImproved Potassium UptakePotassium is a vital nutrient for flower and bud initiation and is one the most expensive nutritional element. VolcaMin particular affinity for potassium enables it to be stored in the soil for efficient plant use. Potassium is often critical to yield.Trial work confirms VolcaMin impact on potassium availability and uptake.Trial in a Commercial Trellis Tomato Crop, Institute of Sustainable Irrigated Agriculture Tatura Victoria 2003The effect of Volcamin banded pre-planting at a rate of 1.4t/ha on a crop of indeterminate tomato (cv Red Ruby)Shepparton Fine Sandy Loam soils was investigated in the Goulburn Valleyo A significant increase in medium and large fruit grade fruit was observed in the Volcamin treatment.o The improved yield may be related to nutrient uptake that was significantly altered when compared with an untreated controlo High potassium levels in petiole sapo Lead to more flower, bud initiation & fruito Potassium is a key driver of flowering and yieldImproved Trace Element Nutrient UptakeUniversity of Colorado Soil Science Dept trials, Sorghum Sudan grass with VolcaMino Increased production by a 65%o Increased P uptakeo NH4 – Volcamin can Mobilise nutrients & trace elementso Lead to higher trace nutrient concentrations in tissueo Concentrations of nutrient elements in plant matter increased by:o P 100%,o Cu 100%,o Mn 450%,o Ca 50%,o Mg 30%o Zn 30%Naturally extracts PhosphorusVolcaMin can naturally assist in releasing phosphorus from soil lock ups or mineral apatite’s. Plants extract the stored ammonium and potassium from the Volcamin by active root uptake, exuding hydrogen ions to replace the nutrient on the Volcamin structure. This loosely bonded hydrogen then exchanges back into the soil as the Volcamin more strongly attracts calcium ions, even breaking the bond of phosphorus and calcium to pull the calcium onto the Volcamin, releasing the phosphorus to plants.o Formula US Geological Survey Researcho Phosphate rock + NH4-Volcamin < = > Ca-Volcamin + NH4 + H2PO4o Naturally extracts phosphorus from applied P locked up in the soilo Extracts calcium from phosphateso Releasing Phosphorus for the Planto Partners to fertilisers MAP DAP Urea & Potassium’so Buffers and holds ammonium & UreaImproved Fertiliser ConversionA trial effect of Volcamin on Clipper malting barley, was carried out by Australian Agricultural Technology at Barooga, NSWo Incorporation of the VolcaMin increased the barley yieldo With DS by 16% and with DAP by 18%.o The DAP plus VolcaMin yield was 34% greater than the DS alone yield.o Volcamin with DAP increased the seeds per head, filler number, yield and protein content of the Barley.Improves Soil StructureVolcamin improves soil structure with its massive internal surface area and porosity. This surface area creates considerable surface tension with available water exerting a great capillary pull. This equates to a natural wetting agent effect with greater infiltration of water into soils and more even capillary distribution throughout the soil. This assists in holding more water higher in the soil profile and spreading available water more evenly from irrigation points. As the Volcamin is mildly alkaline, it has a liming effect on acid soils.o Improves water infiltration and even capillary distribution through soil profileo Helps hold more water higher in the root zoneo Drains freely, won’t block or clog soilo Encourages & provides a home to microbial life, improving micro flora populationso Increases cation exchange capacityo Has mild liming effect buffering acidityo Improves soil aerationo Treatment is permanent as the mineral does not physically break downo Can be built up in the soil over time when applied with fertiliserso Perfect treatment for tropical applications with poor soils and high rainfallRates & InclusionGrowing Mixeso 2.5% of mix volume = 25Kg per M?o 5% of mix volume = 50 Kg per M?o 10% of mix volume = 100 Kg per M?Field Applicationo The efficiency of NPK fertilisers can be increased by the inclusion of Premium Horticultural Grade VolcaMin at 25%-50% of blendo Soil Amendment 1-5 tonnes tonnes/Hectare Tree Rates Tropicso At Planting 5-10 Kgs per planting holeo Circle Trenching 3-5 Kgs per treeVolcamin will also remove ammonia odour from organic manures and improve the fertiliser value of Volcamin treated manures.Echuca Tomato TrialProperty of Mick CoxThe trial was arranged through PIVOT representative Russell Nichol to evaluate the effect of addition of VolcaMin at the rate of 125 Kg/HA in addition to normal fertilizer program on processing tomatoes. The VolcaMin was added with Pivot 16 fertilizer at final stage of bed preparation prior to direct seeding.Approximately 1 HA was treated (3 rows). No obvious growth response was noted and crop was mechanically harvested on 17th March 1992. Two control rows were harvested adjacent to treatment rows, the third being harvested further up the paddock where they had been operating before we harvested the trial.RESULTS:Row                  Number of Bins per Row                        Treatment         Control1                      14.5                  13.02                      13.0                  12.53                      13.5                  12.0TOTAL  41.0                  37.5o VolcaMin APPLIED @ 125 Kg/HA COST @ $300fT = $37.50/HAo INCREASED YIELD (+ 10%)o 7.5 T /HA @ $109.00fT = $817.50                                                   (Noel Whitcher 25th March 1992)Bundaberg Tomato TrialTRIAL DESIGN:The plants were grown in raised rows 9” wide with 27” spaces between rows. VolcaMin was applied within the rows at a rate of .5 tonne and 1 tonne equivalent per acre. The VolcaMin was incorporated with the fertiliser directly into the rows at the time of planting and watering was by trickle irrigation. The actual application rates for the trial where the rows only form ? of the total area, was 0.125 and 0.25 tonne per acre respectively.YIELD ASSESSMENT:A known length of row (75 feet) was picked by hand in the treated rows and in the adjoining untreated row and yields recorded.First pickingVolcaMin at 1 tonne to the acre (equivalent) = 60 kgsUntreated adjoining row                                             = 50 kgsIncrease                                                                     = 20%VolcaMin at .5 tonne to the acre (equivalent)            = 45 kgsUntreated adjoining row                                             = 40 kgsIncrease                                                                     = 12.5%Total Harvest Results The one tonne per acre (equivalent) VolcaMin row yielded overall a 10% increase in fruit size with an accompanying 10-12% increase in yield weights.ECONOMIC BENEFITS:Average yields on tomato production in Bundaberg are 1500-2000 cases per acre. The 10% increase in yield produced an additional 150 cases of tomatoes per acre valued at $1500.Institute of Sustainable Irrigated AgricultureTrial in a Commercial Trellis Tomato Crop, Tatura Victoria 2003o The effect of Volcamin banded pre-planting at a rate of 1.4t/ha on a crop of indeterminate tomato (cv Red Ruby) grown on Shepparton Fine Sandy Loam was investigated at Murchison East in the Goulburn Valley between January and May 2003.o A significant increase in medium and large fruit grade fruit was observed in the Volcamin treatment.o The improved yield may be related to nutrient uptake that was significantly altered when compared with an untreated controlo High potassium levels in petiole sapo Lead to more flower, bud initiation & fruito Potassium is a key driver of flowering and yieldPotassium is a vital nutrient for flower and bud initiation and is one the most expensive nutritional element. VolcaMin particular affinity for potassium enables it to be stored in the soil for efficient plant use. Potassium is often critical to yield.Crop performance & yieldThe Volcamin treatment had a significantly higher number (P=O.007) and yield (P=O.003) of medium-grade fruit, as well as a significant increase in Iarge fruit yield (P=O.042). Total fruit number was significantly (P=O.071) higher in the Volcamin treatment, although there was no significant total yield increase.Effect of Volcamin on small, medium, large and total fruit yield and number in indeterminate tomato cv. Red RubyFruit category TreatmentSmallMediumLargeTotalNumber   YieldNumber   YieldNumber    YieldNumber     Yield(/m)      (t/ha)(/m)      (t/ha)(/m)      (t/ha)(/m)      (t/ha)Volcamin136.7    59.476.5      67.42.4        2.8215.5    129.7Control116.4    57.858.1      48.90.9        0.8175.4    107.7                                                                        Fruit size                                      TreatmentProportion in category (%)Average fruitSmallMediumLargesize (g)Volcamin43.054.62.490.2Control51.048.393.6Department of AgrVolcaMin (clinoptilolite Zeolite)Source - New ZelandNutrient Efficiency Systemfor HorticultureThe Complete in Soil Nutrient Management SolutionVolcaMin works as a fertiliser battery, charging when free nutrients are available, holding them from leaching and releasing them to plant demand as required.  Volcamin is not effected by temperature and reduces the leaching of nutrients under hot tropical conditions, holding them for use by the plant instead.Volcamin is also an excellent capillary distributor of water due its highly porous properties, assisting infiltration, holding water higher in the pot and distributing water and nutrients more evenly through the mix which is important especially under drip irrigation. It is used in several leading wetting agents.Use of Volcamin will soak up excess ammonium and other cations in mixes often released under hot conditions, preventing root burning.  Volcamin is marginally alkaline and a source of available calcium so its use with fertilisers can help buffer pH levels thus reducing the need for lime applications.Volcamin carries a negative ionic charge which naturally attracts positive charged cations like ammonium, potassium, magnesium and calcium. The open crystalline structure of Volcamin has many storage sites for these ions which hold naturally through a loose chemical bond. These fertiliser ions are available to plants. Volcamin has a very high cation exchange capacity and thus increases the mixes ability to hold and release nutrients. As cations are water soluble they escape from mixes by leaching.   Volcamin is the perfect planting partner as it is a natural wetting agent and distributor of water as well as an electrically charged fertiliser magnet.It helps water penetrate sandy non-wettable soils and will evenly distribute water around drippers and soak lines. It should be used in planting holes, mixed with the top 10-15cm of soils or a mulch.As a planting amendment, it makes a permanent difference as it won’t break down or be eaten by microbes in the soil. Volcamin has ten times the nutrient holding capacity per litre than peat and helps prevent environmental leaching of nutrients into waterways.VolcaMin Nutrient Efficiency System for Agriculture & PlantationsThe Complete in Soil Nutrient Management Solution  Incorporating VolcaMin into your soil conditioning and fertiliser program is a long term investment in the productivity of your soils and return on your fertiliser investment. Mixed into holes at planting, banded or applied around existing plantations or mixed with fertiliser blends, VolcaMin will improve plant available nutrient uptake and conversion to yield. Volcamin dramatically improves poor soils and as it doesn’t break down and is not consumed by microbes it is a permanent amendment and conditioner.o Reduces leaching dramaticallyo Selective for ammonium potassium calcium & magnesiumo Stores up to 2% of its own weight in molecular ammonium, potassium, calcium & magnesiumo Improves nutrient availabilityo Volcamin improves water infiltrationo Volcamin improves capillary distribution through the soilo Drains freely, won’t clog the soilo Solution to poor soils under tropical rainfallo Stores nutrients that are normally washed awayo Reduces environmental impact on streams & rivers from reduced farm nutrient run off   Malaysian Mangoes                              20th Aug 07                                                                                                                                         3 months laterEnables better growth through permanently improved water & nutrient retentiono Mixed in from 1% to 5% of root zone soilso Applied with Fertilisers o Natural wetting agento Total Porosity 42.4%o Water holding by volume 26.6%o Capillary water holding without loss of drainageo Nutrient holding through high cation exchangeo Permanent, isn’t consumed by microbes or plantso Selective for ammonium potassium calcium & magnesiumo Reduces leaching dramaticallyWithout Volcamin InclusionWith Volcamin Inclusiono Water and soluble fertilisers pass through the low cation exchange capacity soil profile with nothing to attract and hold themo Valuable nutrients are leached througho Plant available nutrition is pooro Particularly true of poor soils under tropical rainfallo Although drainage is good, water retention is pooro Runoff water becomes nutrient contaminated o Water and soluble fertilisers are attracted and held in the soil profile or growing media Valuable nutrients are not leached but exchanged onto the Volcamino Plant available nutrition is much better as the plants can harvest the Volcamino Hydraulic conductivity is not affectedo Capillary distribution is much bettero More water is held higher in the profileo Higher yields from better nutritiono Reduced Environmental leachateImproved Nitrogen Uptake VolcaMin particular affinity to attract and hold ammonium enables it to catch and hold nitrogen fertilisers from leaching through the soil for maximum plant available nutrition. Plants readily extract the stored nitrogen they require from the Volcamin by active root uptake.University of New England; Department of Agronomy & Soil Science. Test of Lettuce and Reseda odorata into potting mixes at 8% by weight and Uralla (sandy granitic) soilConclusions:o The results of the trials using Volcamin were significant. o Volcamin addition produced considerable increases in plant growtho Volcamin reduces Nitrogen toxicity in early plant growth.          o Volcamin has the ability to retain nitrogen in the absorbed (NH4+) form against leachingo Volcamin improves the uptake of Nitrogen in plants and improves fertilizer utilizationo Volcamin improved uptake by plants by 175% in Potting mix Improved Nitrogen Recovery from plant tissue Cornell University USAo Recovery of applied Nitrogen from grass in Volcamin amended sand profileo For the sand profiles, the percentage of applied fertilizer N that was recovered in grass clippings ranged fromo 62% to 70% of the applied No The addition of 10% Volcamin to the sand resulted in a greater amount of the fertilizer N ending up in the bent grass clippingso 75% to 93% of the applied N.o This difference was most noticeable at the lower N application rate.o Adding 10% Volcamin to sand also resulted in substantially less nitrate leaching.o Leaching of NO3 reduced by 88%o Leaching of NH4 reduced by 99% VolcaMin with VolcaMinImproved Potassium UptakePotassium is a vital nutrient for flower and bud initiation and is one the most expensive nutritional element. VolcaMin particular affinity for potassium enables it to be stored in the soil for efficient plant use. Potassium is often critical to yield.Trial work confirms VolcaMin impact on potassium availability and uptake.Trial in a Commercial Trellis Tomato Crop, Institute of Sustainable Irrigated Agriculture Tatura Victoria 2003The effect of Volcamin banded pre-planting at a rate of 1.4t/ha on a crop of indeterminate tomato (cv Red Ruby)Shepparton Fine Sandy Loam soils was investigated in the Goulburn Valleyo A significant increase in medium and large fruit grade fruit was observed in the Volcamin treatment.o The improved yield may be related to nutrient uptake that was significantly altered when compared with an untreated controlo High potassium levels in petiole sapo Lead to more flower, bud initiation & fruito Potassium is a key driver of flowering and yieldImproved Trace Element Nutrient UptakeUniversity of Colorado Soil Science Dept trials, Sorghum Sudan grass with VolcaMino Increased production by a 65%o Increased P uptakeo NH4 – Volcamin can Mobilise nutrients & trace elementso Lead to higher trace nutrient concentrations in tissueo Concentrations of nutrient elements in plant matter increased by:o P 100%,o Cu 100%,o Mn 450%,o Ca 50%,o Mg 30%o Zn 30%Naturally extracts PhosphorusVolcaMin can naturally assist in releasing phosphorus from soil lock ups or mineral apatite’s. Plants extract the stored ammonium and potassium from the Volcamin by active root uptake, exuding hydrogen ions to replace the nutrient on the Volcamin structure. This loosely bonded hydrogen then exchanges back into the soil as the Volcamin more strongly attracts calcium ions, even breaking the bond of phosphorus and calcium to pull the calcium onto the Volcamin, releasing the phosphorus to plants.o Formula US Geological Survey Researcho Phosphate rock + NH4-Volcamin < = > Ca-Volcamin + NH4 + H2PO4o Naturally extracts phosphorus from applied P locked up in the soilo Extracts calcium from phosphateso Releasing Phosphorus for the Planto Partners to fertilisers MAP DAP Urea & Potassium’so Buffers and holds ammonium & UreaImproved Fertiliser Conversion A trial effect of Volcamin on Clipper malting barley, was carried out by Australian Agricultural Technology at Barooga, NSWo Incorporation of the VolcaMin increased the barley yieldo With DS by 16% and with DAP by 18%.o The DAP plus VolcaMin yield was 34% greater than the DS alone yield.o Volcamin with DAP increased the seeds per head, filler number, yield and protein content of the Barley.Improves Soil StructureVolcamin improves soil structure with its massive internal surface area and porosity. This surface area creates considerable surface tension with available water exerting a great capillary pull. This equates to a natural wetting agent effect with greater infiltration of water into soils and more even capillary distribution throughout the soil. This assists in holding more water higher in the soil profile and spreading available water more evenly from irrigation points. As the Volcamin is mildly alkaline, it has a liming effect on acid soils.o Improves water infiltration and even capillary distribution through soil profileo Helps hold more water higher in the root zoneo Drains freely, won’t block or clog soilo Encourages & provides a home to microbial life, improving micro flora populationso Increases cation exchange capacityo Has mild liming effect buffering acidityo Improves soil aerationo Treatment is permanent as the mineral does not physically break downo Can be built up in the soil over time when applied with fertiliserso Perfect treatment for tropical applications with poor soils and high rainfallRates & InclusionGrowing Mixeso 2.5% of mix volume = 25Kg per M?o 5% of mix volume = 50 Kg per M?o 10% of mix volume = 100 Kg per M?Field Applicationo The efficiency of NPK fertilisers can be increased by the inclusion of Premium Horticultural Grade VolcaMin at 25%-50% of blendo Soil Amendment 1-5 tonnes tonnes/Hectare Tree Rates Tropicso At Planting 5-10 Kgs per planting holeo Circle Trenching 3-5 Kgs per treeVolcamin will also remove ammonia odour from organic manures and improve the fertiliser value of Volcamin treated manures.Echuca Tomato TrialProperty of Mick CoxThe trial was arranged through PIVOT representative Russell Nichol to evaluate the effect of addition of VolcaMin at the rate of 125 Kg/HA in addition to normal fertilizer program on processing tomatoes. The VolcaMin was added with Pivot 16 fertilizer at final stage of bed preparation prior to direct seeding.Approximately 1 HA was treated (3 rows). No obvious growth response was noted and crop was mechanically harvested on 17th March 1992. Two control rows were harvested adjacent to treatment rows, the third being harvested further up the paddock where they had been operating before we harvested the trial.RESULTS:Row                  Number of Bins per Row                        Treatment         Control1                      14.5                  13.02                      13.0                  12.53                      13.5                  12.0TOTAL  41.0                  37.5o VolcaMin APPLIED @ 125 Kg/HA COST @ $300fT = $37.50/HAo INCREASED YIELD (+ 10%)o 7.5 T /HA @ $109.00fT = $817.50                                                   (Noel Whitcher 25th March 1992)Bundaberg Tomato TrialTRIAL DESIGN: The plants were grown in raised rows 9” wide with 27” spaces between rows. VolcaMin was applied within the rows at a rate of .5 tonne and 1 tonne equivalent per acre. The VolcaMin was incorporated with the fertiliser directly into the rows at the time of planting and watering was by trickle irrigation. The actual application rates for the trial where the rows only form ? of the total area, was 0.125 and 0.25 tonne per acre respectively.YIELD ASSESSMENT: A known length of row (75 feet) was picked by hand in the treated rows and in the adjoining untreated row and yields recorded.First picking VolcaMin at 1 tonne to the acre (equivalent) = 60 kgsUntreated adjoining row                                             = 50 kgsIncrease                                                                     = 20% VolcaMin at .5 tonne to the acre (equivalent)            = 45 kgsUntreated adjoining row                                             = 40 kgsIncrease                                                                     = 12.5%Total Harvest Results The one tonne per acre (equivalent) VolcaMin row yielded overall a 10% increase in fruit size with an accompanying 10-12% increase in yield weights.ECONOMIC BENEFITS: Average yields on tomato production in Bundaberg are 1500-2000 cases per acre. The 10% increase in yield produced an additional 150 cases of tomatoes per acre valued at $1500.Institute of Sustainable Irrigated AgricultureTrial in a Commercial Trellis Tomato Crop, Tatura Victoria 2003o The effect of Volcamin banded pre-planting at a rate of 1.4t/ha on a crop of indeterminate tomato (cv Red Ruby) grown on Shepparton Fine Sandy Loam was investigated at Murchison East in the Goulburn Valley between January and May 2003.o A significant increase in medium and large fruit grade fruit was observed in the Volcamin treatment.o The improved yield may be related to nutrient uptake that was significantly altered when compared with an untreated controlo High potassium levels in petiole sapo Lead to more flower, bud initiation & fruito Potassium is a key driver of flowering and yieldPotassium is a vital nutrient for flower and bud initiation and is one the most expensive nutritional element. VolcaMin particular affinity for potassium enables it to be stored in the soil for efficient plant use. Potassium is often critical to yield.Crop performance & yieldThe Volcamin treatment had a significantly higher number (P=O.007) and yield (P=O.003) of medium-grade fruit, as well as a significant increase in Iarge fruit yield (P=O.042). Total fruit number was significantly (P=O.071) higher in the Volcamin treatment, although there was no significant total yield increase.Effect of Volcamin on small, medium, large and total fruit yield and number in indeterminate tomato cv. Red RubyFruit category TreatmentSmallMediumLargeTotalNumber   YieldNumber   YieldNumber    YieldNumber     Yield(/m)      (t/ha)(/m)      (t/ha)(/m)      (t/ha)(/m)      (t/ha)Volcamin136.7    59.476.5      67.42.4        2.8215.5    129.7Control116.4    57.858.1      48.90.9        0.8175.4    107.7                                                                        Fruit size                                      TreatmentProportion in category (%)Average fruitSmallMediumLargesize (g)Volcamin43.054.62.490.2Control51.048.30.793.6Department of AgrFossil Shell Flour (Food-Grade Certified Organic Diatomaceous Earth Powder) is a natural product derived from the fossilised remains of microscopic shells of freshwater algae called diatoms. This 100% pure plant-based whole food has many health benefits, provides a natural source of silica for humans, animals, and soil, and is a harsh abrasive against pests in the garden.Our source is the world’s finest food-grade diatomaceous earth. Entirely organic and pure, this natural source of silica assists with optimal gut health and nutrient absorption.Plant Doctor is the sole Australian distributor of this product.Human benefits:* Cleanses the digestive system and improves gut health* Helps remove toxins, impurities and parasites* Healthier-looking skin, hair and nails.* Improves functionality of the liver and colon* Contains minerals including Calcium, Magnesium, Zinc, Iron and is >86% Silica* Increases nutrient and mineral absorption and hydration levels* Reduces gas and bloating* Helps improve energy levels* Promotes regular bowel movements* Cleanses intestinal walls and digestive tract  Recommend dose: simply take 1/2 teaspoon of food-grade diatomaceous earth with filtered water daily. You can increase your dosage slowly over several weeks up to 1 teaspoon (maximum 3g) per day.Note: A redesign of our labels will reflect recommended consumption rates for both Human and Animal Health.Animal benefits:* Help with internal and external parasite control* Increases detoxification and removal of heavy metals* Improves gut health and acts as digestive aid* Helps improve joint, bone and ligament health* Contains minerals including Calcium, Magnesium, Zinc, Iron and is 93% Silica* Stimulates basic metabolism* Reduces odour and moisture in barns, stalls and litter boxesRecommend dose: Mix with food. For small pets under 25kg, use 1/2 teaspoon per day. For larger pets, use up to 1 teaspoon per day. Livestock & Animals over 150kg, add 1% of the weight to the feed rations. For external parasite control, make a paste with water or rub full-strength powder on to the skin and/or apply to the coat and sprinkle on bedding/stalls/pens. Birds will naturally use to dust bathe.Garden Pest use:Sprinkle on leaves, trunks, branches & soil to deter pests. Reapply after rain/watering. Avoid ALL flowers. This product is indiscriminate and works to make small abrasive cuts to the exoskeletons on contact for both hard & soft bodied insects causing fatal dehydration. Use only where plants are being eaten by pest species and avoid all flowers to protect pollinators. Can be used on in bee hives on the base only for hive beetle. Ensure a thin covering does not allow the bees to come into contact as they enter/exit the hive.WARNING: Fine particle dust - Avoid inhalation. Please consult your healthcare/veterinary professional before using any product referred to on this website. The statements and products sold on this website have not been evaluated by the Therapeutic Goods Administration (TGA) or AVPMA and are not intended to diagnose, treat, cure or prevent any disease.Notes: Keep sealed and store in a dry location.FAQ1. What is Diatomaceous earth?Diatomaceous earth is the fossilised remains of microscopic aquatic algae called diatoms. This major group of microorganisms has existed for millions of years and can be found in oceans and waterways worldwide.2. What’s the difference between Fossil Shell Flour and Diatomaceous earth?While these two are basically the same thing, Diatomaceous earth packaged under the Fossil Shell Flour label ensures you will be receiving the purest form of DE sourced from a freshwater deposit.Fossil Shell Flour is the registered trademark of Perma-Guard, the original and largest supplier of fresh water, food-grade Diatomaceous earth.3. Is all diatomaceous earth the same?No, there are many different varieties of diatomaceous earth and not all of them are food-grade.Some diatomaceous earth cited as food grade contains higher amounts of sediment and clay, making it less effective than its pure counterparts.Since the Australian market has been flooded with cheap versions of DE, we suggest you check that the product is registered and certified food grade prior to purchase. 4. Where does your diatomaceous earth come from?Diatomaceous earth has been mined for decades from various deposits all over the world, but not all diatomaceous earth is the same.Plant Doctor sources diatomaceous earth from Perma-Guard, the original and largest supplier of registered food-grade diatomaceous earth products in the world. With more than 40 years of experience, Perma-Guard is known worldwide for using an entirely pure grade of diatomaceous earth.Out of 600 deposits in the US, only 4 are considered ‘food-grade’ by the FDA standards. Plant Doctor sources from one of these 4 deposits via Perma-Guard. This freshwater deposit is consistent in its purity and has an 86 – 92% amorphous silica content, making it very pure.Plant Doctor is the exclusive Australian importer of Perma-Guard’s Fossil Shell Flour®.5. Is Fossil Shell Flour vegan?Yes, Fossil Shell Flour is gluten-free, vegan, non-GMO, sugar-free and dairy-free. Also approved by the FDA and EPA for limited uses in the USA.6. Tell me more about the manufacturer.Perma-Guard Fossil Shell Flour ® Food Grade pure Diatomaceous Earth - 100% Pure, organic and comes from fresh water.Perma-Guard is the original and largest supplier of registered food-grade diatomaceous earth products in the world and is imported from the United States. Not all Diatomaceous Earth is Food Grade. There are many cheaper versions of Diatomaceous Earth starting to flood the market in Australia, we suggest you check that the product is registered/certified food grade before making any purchases as many types can contain impurities making them unsafe for consumption. To date, there is no Australian Diatomaceous Earth that is certified as Food Grade.Some Diatomaceous Earth claimed as food grade contain higher amounts of sediment and clay that make them less effective. Depending upon how the deposits were formed, clay particles may be present in sufficient quantities to clog the pores of the fossilized shells. If this is the case, the effectiveness of the Diatomaceous Earth is severely reduced. The shape of the diatom must be tubular with holes in the walls. It must be fresh water because the diatoms form a harder shell and are less fragile than those in saltwater. Perma-Guard Fossil Shell Flour DE is registered Food Grade and contains no chemicals.Warning: When purchasing Food Grade Fossil Shell Flour Diatomaceous Earth, you should be looking for something that is off-white/bone in colour. When comparing Our product with other, even Australian products, you’ll notice there is a large comparison in colour, this is mainly due to clay deposits found in the Australian and other countries products.Perma-Guard Food Grade Fossil Shell Flour (DE) - amorphous silica as diatoms (microfossils) is more than 99% and the crystalline silica is generally regarded as less than 0.5%.PERMA-GUARD is the trade name for a grade and quality of Diatomaceous Earth (DE) and comes from the USA. Actually, DE is not an earth. It is the fossilized remains of microscopic shells of freshwater plankton Algae/plants called DIATOMS.These products do not contain persistent chemicals harmful to the environment and to higher forms of life. Although not harmful to animals or the environment generally, it may be harmful to fish.Perma-Guard is uniquely Natural, Organic and Sustainable.All diatomaceous earth is not the same. Diatomaceous earth packaged under our Fossil Shell Flour (FSF) label comes from an extremely pure freshwater deposit of the diatom Melosira Preicelanica. Why is this diatom so special? Its shell is made of amorphous silica. Its shape and hardness are important to how it works. Its hardness keeps it from dissolving in liquid. The holes along the diatom's wall allow it to absorb moisture.Why fresh water vs. saltwater DE? Fresh water deposits like ours have a consistent diatom presence. Their fossilized shells have maintained their tubular shape. This shape and strength of the fossil shell is critical to its effectiveness. Our deposit has very high amorphous silica content. Our deposit is more consistent in purity of other elements that have settled in it. Saltwater deposits contain a mix of types of diatoms of different shapes. Their fossilized shells are fragile and break easily. This renders them ineffective for our purposes. The saltwater deposits are less predictable in their sediments.What's the difference between amorphous and crystalline silica? Amorphous silica is silica in its natural occurring state. It is a trace mineral every mammal on the planet needs to gain full health. It becomes crystalline when it is exposed to extreme heat through volcanic activity or commercial manufacturing means, e.g. the type of diatomaceous earth used in swimming pool, and other, filtration systems are crystalline silica. Crystalline silica is extremely dangerous when inhaled or ingested. It is not biodegradable.In Australia, Food Grade Fossil Shell Flour has only been approved for sale as an Anti-Caking Agent and animal feed, therefore we can only advertise it as such. Please see the manufacturers website www.perma-guard.com to find out more or research on the internet (google, YouTube etc). In Australia it is currently not approved as a human health product, in other countries such as USA and Canada the Perma-Guard brand of Fossil Shell Flour Food Grade DE is approved by PMRA & Health Canada, USDA, FDA and EPA.FURTHER READING - What Is Diatomaceous Earth?Diatomaceous earth (DE) is a natural product made up of fossilized remains of tiny, aquatic organisms called diatoms. Composed of the cell walls/shells of single cell diatoms, it easily crumbles to a fine powder.In fact, the composition of the diatom cell walls are biogenic silica.The substances used to make diatomaceous earth are safe and taken directly from the sea, since diatom silica deposits accumulate over time in the sediment of rivers, streams, lakes and oceans.DE goes by many names other than diatomaceous earth, including:dinosaur dustmiracle mineralfossil shell powder (NOT FOSSIL SHELL FLOUR)ancient treasureAccording to the National Pesticide Information Centre, diatoms found in DE are actually skeletons that are made up of silica, a very common type of matter found in nature that makes up about 26 percent of the earth’s crust. There are various types of natural silica, many of which you probably recognize, including: sand, emerald, quartz, feldspar, mica, clay, asbestos and glass.What are some products that contain diatomaceous earth? Diatomaceous earth is available in two different grades:Food Grade — meant to be taken internally by humansNon-Food Grade — used in industrial practicesSome common products that contain diatomaceous earth include dusts, powders (or a “powder duster”) and pressurized liquids that are used on the outside of buildings, on farms, in gardens, and in human and pet foods.It usually comes in the form of a white powder and is also used in water filtering, food manufacturing, skin products and farming to naturally eliminate free radicals, viruses, insects, parasites and other harmful organisms by binding to them and drying them out. It also has the ability to improve the body’s use of calcium, improve bone mineralization, protect joints and fight effects of aging.Diatomaceous earth comes in several forms:Milled, micronized or granulated diatomaceous earth, a raw material made from crushing silica that’s usually available as a powder and safe for human consumption (to be food-grade, it must contain less than 1 percent crystalline silica), can also be used in pesticides and insecticidescalcined diatomaceous earth, a heat-treated and activated form used in water filtering and explosivesYou can purchase food-grade DE in some health food stores or online. DE for your garden or pest control is also available at many home improvement stores.Silica used to make diatomaceous earth is a key common component of the earth’s natural rock, sands and clays. Silica is an important component of human ligaments, cartilage and musculature and is also abundant in plants since it facilitates their growth and development.Studies have shown that it’s an essential mineral for the body to build strong bones, hair, nails and teeth, and it’s needed to carry calcium into various parts of the body.According to research published in the Journal of Nutrition, Health and Aging, many forms of silica exist in nature, and compelling data supports myriad beneficial effects of consuming more silica within water. Orthosilicic acid is the form of silicon predominantly absorbed by humans and found in numerous tissues, including nails, bones, tendons, the aorta, the liver and the kidneys.Compelling evidence exists that suggests silica is essential for health and has a strong anti-aging effect. Deficiencies in silica can contribute to:abnormal growthdeformities in skull and peripheral bonesjoint pain caused from poorly formed joints and reduced contents of cartilage and collagendisruption of mineral balancedamage to the femur and vertebraeBenefits for the Body1. Detoxifies the BodyDiatomaceous earth — also known as diatomite — works like a natural detoxifying agent within the body, killing parasites and viruses that can contribute to illnesses while also helping to clean the blood. It’s also inexpensive, simple to use and much safer than many store-bought detox products or plans.Some of the benefits of using DE internally include reducing odours, helping to curb gas, cleansing the digestive tract, boosting liver function and absorbing harmful toxins within the blood.How does DE work to help with detoxification?Silica works similarly to antioxidants found in high-antioxidant foods because it retains its traits as a stable particle even while continuously suspended in a liquid medium, allowing it to fight free radical damage. It’s broken down into a colloidal form, which acts like a detoxifier for the blood since it carries an electrical charge that attaches to free radicals and other harmful toxins.Silica particles can then neutralize the charge of free radicals and remove them from the body through sweat, urine and faeces, which slows oxidative damage and has anti-aging effects.A study published in the American Journal of Clinical Nutrition found that silica also helps eliminate heavy metals from the body, such as aluminium, making it perfect for a heavy metal detox. In studies, it has been shown to have a high-aluminium-affinity and reduces aluminium availability from the human gastrointestinal tract.2. Fights ParasitesA 2011 study published in the Oxford Journal of Poultry Science found that DE has the potential to be an effective treatment to help control internal worms (parasites). Interestingly enough, this was observed in hens that produce organically raised, free-range eggs.Giving two breeds of commercial egg-laying hens DE improved production of their eggs and egg quality compared to control groups, effectively working as a parasite cleanse in the process.The two groups of hens used in the study were found to differ in their resistance to internal parasitic infections, which was observed by examining their gastrointestinal tracts. The hens fed DE had significantly lower incidences of infections, including fewer Capillaria FEC, slightly lower Eimeria FEC, fewer birds infected with Heterakis and significantly lower Heterakis worm infections.Those fed DE were also significantly heavier in weight, laid more eggs and consumed more feed than hens fed the control diet, plus their eggs had larger yolks and therefore were more concentrated with nutrients.Plant Doctor's Fossil Shell Flour capsules made by our in-house Food Manufacturing team, making them the BEST VALUE online!INGREDIENTS:Each capsule contains 350mg of 100% certified Organic, fresh water Diatomaceous Earth. No fillers!Suggested Use:Take 2 capsules per day – up to 4 capsules per day under consultation from your professional health care provider.BENEFITS•   Cleanses the digestive system and improves gut health•   Helps remove toxins, impurities and parasites•   Contains minerals – Calcium, Magnesium, Zinc, Iron & Silica•   Increases nutrient absorption and hydration levels•   100% pure, organic and comes from fresh water•   Plant based wholefoodPlease consult your healthcare professional before using any product referred to on this website. The statements and products sold on this website have not been evaluated by the therapeutic goods administration (TGA) and are not intended to diagnose, treat, cure or prevent any disease.SEE WHAT DR AXE has to say about Diatomaceous Earth....You may never have heard of diatomaceous earth (DE) before, but chances are you’ve consumed or used plenty of products that contain it. So what is diatomaceous earth and does it really work?DE is a powder that comes from the cell walls or shells of diatoms, or aquatic organisms. It’s commonly used by humans to promote detoxification, aid digestion, and improve skin and hair health.For example, diatomaceous earth for fleas is also extremely effective for your pets. But DE has many uses beyond that, with an astounding ability to kill insects and harmful substances in your home and purify your water.If you haven’t used this natural substance in your diet, home or garden yet, you’ll want to experience its many benefits.What Is Diatomaceous Earth?Diatomaceous earth (DE) is a natural product made up of fossilized remains of tiny, aquatic organisms called diatoms. Composed of the cell walls/shells of single cell diatoms, it easily crumbles to a fine powder.In fact, the composition of the diatom cell walls are biogenic silica.The substances used to make diatomaceous earth are safe and taken directly from the sea, since diatom silica deposits accumulate over time in the sediment of rivers, streams, lakes and oceans.DE goes by many names other than diatomaceous earth, including:* dinosaur dust* miracle mineral* fossil shell* ancient treasureAccording to the National Pesticide Information Center, diatoms found in DE are actually skeletons that are made up of silica, a very common type of matter found in nature that makes up about 26 percent of the earth’s crust. There are various types of natural silica, many of which you probably recognize, including: sand, emerald, quartz, feldspar, mica, clay, asbestos and glass.What are some products that contain diatomaceous earth? Diatomaceous earth is available in two different grades:* Food Grade — meant to be taken internally by humans* Non-Food Grade — used in industrial practicesSome common products that contain diatomaceous earth include dusts, powders (or a “powder duster”) and pressurized liquids that are used on the outside of buildings, on farms, in gardens, and in human and pet foods.It usually comes in the form of a white powder and is also used in water filtering, food manufacturing, skin products and farming to naturally eliminate free radicals, viruses, insects, parasites and other harmful organisms by binding to them and drying them out. It also has the ability to improve the body’s use of calcium, improve bone mineralization, protect joints and fight effects of aging.Diatomaceous earth comes in several forms:* milled, micronized or granulated diatomaceous earth, a raw material made from crushing silica that’s usually available as a powder and safe for human consumption (to be food-grade, it must contain less than 1 percent crystalline silica), can also be used in pesticides and insecticides* calcined diatomaceous earth, a heat-treated and activated form used in water filtering and explosivesYou can purchase food-grade DE in some health food stores or online. DE for your garden or pest control is also available at many home improvement stores.Silica used to make diatomaceous earth is a key common component of the earth’s natural rock, sands and clays. Silica is an important component of human ligaments, cartilage and musculature and is also abundant in plants since it facilitates their growth and development.Studies have shown that it’s an essential mineral for the body to build strong bones, hair, nails and teeth, and it’s needed to carry calcium into various parts of the body.According to research published in the Journal of Nutrition, Health and Aging, many forms of silica exist in nature, and compelling data supports myriad beneficial effects of consuming more silica within water. Orthosilicic acid is the form of silicon predominantly absorbed by humans and found in numerous tissues, including nails, bones, tendons, the aorta, the liver and the kidneys.Compelling evidence exists that suggests silica is essential for health and has a strong anti-aging effect. Deficiencies in silica can contribute to:* abnormal growth* deformities in skull and peripheral bones* joint pain caused from poorly formed joints and reduced contents of cartilage and collagen* disruption of mineral balance* damage to the femur and vertebraeBenefits for the Body1. Detoxifies the BodyDiatomaceous earth — also known as diatomite — works like a natural detoxifying agent within the body, killing parasites and viruses that can contribute to illnesses while also helping to clean the blood. It’s also inexpensive, simple to use and much safer than many store-bought detox products or plans.Some of the benefits of using DE internally include reducing odors, helping to curb gas, cleansing the digestive tract, boosting liver function and absorbing harmful toxins within the blood.How does DE work to help with detoxification?Silica works similarly to antioxidants found in high-antioxidant foods because it retains its traits as a stable particle even while continuously suspended in a liquid medium, allowing it to fight free radical damage. It’s broken down into a colloidal form, which acts like a detoxifier for the blood since it carries an electrical charge that attaches to free radicals and other harmful toxins.Silica particles can then neutralize the charge of free radicals and remove them from the body through sweat, urine and feces, which slows oxidative damage and has anti-aging effects.A study published in the American Journal of Clinical Nutrition found that silica also helps eliminate heavy metals from the body, such as aluminum, making it perfect for a heavy metal detox. In studies, it has been shown to have a high-aluminum-affinity and reduces aluminum availability from the human gastrointestinal tract.2. Fights ParasitesA 2011 study published in the Oxford Journal of Poultry Science found that DE has the potential to be an effective treatment to help control internal worms (parasites). Interestingly enough, this was observed in hens that produce organically raised, free-range eggs.Giving two breeds of commercial egg-laying hens DE improved production of their eggs and egg quality compared to control groups, effectively working as a parasite cleanse in the process.The two groups of hens used in the study were found to differ in their resistance to internal parasitic infections, which was observed by examining their gastrointestinal tracts. The hens fed DE had significantly lower incidences of infections, including fewer Capillaria FEC, slightly lower Eimeria FEC, fewer birds infected with Heterakis and significantly lower Heterakis worm infections.Those fed DE were also significantly heavier in weight, laid more eggs and consumed more feed than hens fed the control diet, plus their eggs had larger yolks and therefore were more concentrated with nutrients.3. Improves Joint, Bones and Ligaments HealthA 2007 study published in the Journal of Nutrition Health and Aging stated that dietary silicon is beneficial to bone and connective tissue and helps prevent low bone mass (osteoporosis), which is considered “a silent epidemic of the 21st century.”Silica within DE helps with normal bone metabolism and joint formation, with evidence over the past 30 years suggesting there’s a positive association between dietary silicon intake and better bone mineral density. Thus, DE makes a great addition to any osteoporosis diet and treatment plan.A number of possible mechanisms for how this works have been suggested, including the possibility that silicon helps with synthesis of collagen (used to form joints, the lining of the digestive tract and connective tissue) and within the mineralization of bones. While more research is still needed, it appears that silica supplementation can be used to help support normal metabolic processes, preserve joint health and prevent bone disorders.4. Helps Clean and Protect Skin, Nails and TeethSince it has natural abrasive qualities and kills parasites, DE is used in many toothpastes, skin exfoliators, polishes and skin scrubs. Research suggests that just like other beneficial clays — like bentonite clay benefits and uses — DE dries out harmful toxins and leaves behind clean, smoothed skin with little to side effects.It also seems to have anti-aging effects by helping with the use of calcium in forming strong bones, nails and teeth.Benefits for the Home1. Helps Purify WaterDiatomaceous earth is used in many filtration products, including the trademarked brand name Celite, because its chemical composition makes it a great filtration aid. It’s able to filter very fine particles that otherwise pass through or clog filter papers.This makes it a common product used in water filters to help prevent tap water toxicity and also purification practices for fish tanks. Additionally, it’s also important for manufacturing beer and wine, syrups, sugar, and honey without removing or altering their color, taste or nutritional properties.A study published in the Journal of Applied and Environmental Microbiology found that diatomaceous earth helps kill viruses and purify drinking water. Viruses have been found to be dangerous and abundant in certain sources of drinking water, raising the risk for viral infections and having a significant impact on bacteria and algae populations in the ecosystem.Researchers tested the effects of a filter containing DE on tap water that was contaminated with heavy metals and various viral strains. The results of the study showed that DE helped absorb up to 80 percent of the viruses present, including poliovirus 1, echovirus 5 and coxsackievirus B5, which were all present in tap water even after filtration.2. Kills Insects and Other Harmful Substances in Your HomeIn the U.S., DE is classified under the Federal Insecticide, Fungicide, and Rodenticide Act as a safe substance for household use. How does diatomaceous earth work to get rid of insects?It’s a natural insecticide, since it absorbs lipids from the waxy outer layer of insects’ exoskeletons, which causes them to dehydrate and die of water deficiency. This is why it’sPlant Doctor's Fossil Shell Flour capsules made by our in-house Food Manufacturing team, making them the BEST VALUE online!INGREDIENTS:Each capsule contains 350mg of 100% certified Organic, fresh water Diatomaceous Earth. No fillers!Suggested Use:Take 2 capsules per day – up to 4 capsules per day under consultation from your professional health care provider.BENEFITS•   Cleanses the digestive system and improves gut health•   Helps remove toxins, impurities and parasites•   Contains minerals – Calcium, Magnesium, Zinc, Iron & Silica•   Increases nutrient absorption and hydration levels•   100% pure, organic and comes from fresh water•   Plant based wholefoodPlease consult your healthcare professional before using any product referred to on this website. The statements and products sold on this website have not been evaluated by the therapeutic goods administration (TGA) and are not intended to diagnose, treat, cure or prevent any disease.SEE WHAT DR AXE has to say about Diatomaceous Earth....You may never have heard of diatomaceous earth (DE) before, but chances are you’ve consumed or used plenty of products that contain it. So what is diatomaceous earth and does it really work?DE is a powder that comes from the cell walls or shells of diatoms, or aquatic organisms. It’s commonly used by humans to promote detoxification, aid digestion, and improve skin and hair health.For example, diatomaceous earth for fleas is also extremely effective for your pets. But DE has many uses beyond that, with an astounding ability to kill insects and harmful substances in your home and purify your water.If you haven’t used this natural substance in your diet, home or garden yet, you’ll want to experience its many benefits.What Is Diatomaceous Earth?Diatomaceous earth (DE) is a natural product made up of fossilized remains of tiny, aquatic organisms called diatoms. Composed of the cell walls/shells of single cell diatoms, it easily crumbles to a fine powder.In fact, the composition of the diatom cell walls are biogenic silica.The substances used to make diatomaceous earth are safe and taken directly from the sea, since diatom silica deposits accumulate over time in the sediment of rivers, streams, lakes and oceans.DE goes by many names other than diatomaceous earth, including:* dinosaur dust* miracle mineral* fossil shell* ancient treasureAccording to the National Pesticide Information Center, diatoms found in DE are actually skeletons that are made up of silica, a very common type of matter found in nature that makes up about 26 percent of the earth’s crust. There are various types of natural silica, many of which you probably recognize, including: sand, emerald, quartz, feldspar, mica, clay, asbestos and glass.What are some products that contain diatomaceous earth? Diatomaceous earth is available in two different grades:* Food Grade — meant to be taken internally by humans* Non-Food Grade — used in industrial practicesSome common products that contain diatomaceous earth include dusts, powders (or a “powder duster”) and pressurized liquids that are used on the outside of buildings, on farms, in gardens, and in human and pet foods.It usually comes in the form of a white powder and is also used in water filtering, food manufacturing, skin products and farming to naturally eliminate free radicals, viruses, insects, parasites and other harmful organisms by binding to them and drying them out. It also has the ability to improve the body’s use of calcium, improve bone mineralization, protect joints and fight effects of aging.Diatomaceous earth comes in several forms:* milled, micronized or granulated diatomaceous earth, a raw material made from crushing silica that’s usually available as a powder and safe for human consumption (to be food-grade, it must contain less than 1 percent crystalline silica), can also be used in pesticides and insecticides* calcined diatomaceous earth, a heat-treated and activated form used in water filtering and explosivesYou can purchase food-grade DE in some health food stores or online. DE for your garden or pest control is also available at many home improvement stores.Silica used to make diatomaceous earth is a key common component of the earth’s natural rock, sands and clays. Silica is an important component of human ligaments, cartilage and musculature and is also abundant in plants since it facilitates their growth and development.Studies have shown that it’s an essential mineral for the body to build strong bones, hair, nails and teeth, and it’s needed to carry calcium into various parts of the body.According to research published in the Journal of Nutrition, Health and Aging, many forms of silica exist in nature, and compelling data supports myriad beneficial effects of consuming more silica within water. Orthosilicic acid is the form of silicon predominantly absorbed by humans and found in numerous tissues, including nails, bones, tendons, the aorta, the liver and the kidneys.Compelling evidence exists that suggests silica is essential for health and has a strong anti-aging effect. Deficiencies in silica can contribute to:* abnormal growth* deformities in skull and peripheral bones* joint pain caused from poorly formed joints and reduced contents of cartilage and collagen* disruption of mineral balance* damage to the femur and vertebraeBenefits for the Body1. Detoxifies the BodyDiatomaceous earth — also known as diatomite — works like a natural detoxifying agent within the body, killing parasites and viruses that can contribute to illnesses while also helping to clean the blood. It’s also inexpensive, simple to use and much safer than many store-bought detox products or plans.Some of the benefits of using DE internally include reducing odors, helping to curb gas, cleansing the digestive tract, boosting liver function and absorbing harmful toxins within the blood.How does DE work to help with detoxification?Silica works similarly to antioxidants found in high-antioxidant foods because it retains its traits as a stable particle even while continuously suspended in a liquid medium, allowing it to fight free radical damage. It’s broken down into a colloidal form, which acts like a detoxifier for the blood since it carries an electrical charge that attaches to free radicals and other harmful toxins.Silica particles can then neutralize the charge of free radicals and remove them from the body through sweat, urine and feces, which slows oxidative damage and has anti-aging effects.A study published in the American Journal of Clinical Nutrition found that silica also helps eliminate heavy metals from the body, such as aluminum, making it perfect for a heavy metal detox. In studies, it has been shown to have a high-aluminum-affinity and reduces aluminum availability from the human gastrointestinal tract.2. Fights ParasitesA 2011 study published in the Oxford Journal of Poultry Science found that DE has the potential to be an effective treatment to help control internal worms (parasites). Interestingly enough, this was observed in hens that produce organically raised, free-range eggs.Giving two breeds of commercial egg-laying hens DE improved production of their eggs and egg quality compared to control groups, effectively working as a parasite cleanse in the process.The two groups of hens used in the study were found to differ in their resistance to internal parasitic infections, which was observed by examining their gastrointestinal tracts. The hens fed DE had significantly lower incidences of infections, including fewer Capillaria FEC, slightly lower Eimeria FEC, fewer birds infected with Heterakis and significantly lower Heterakis worm infections.Those fed DE were also significantly heavier in weight, laid more eggs and consumed more feed than hens fed the control diet, plus their eggs had larger yolks and therefore were more concentrated with nutrients.3. Improves Joint, Bones and Ligaments HealthA 2007 study published in the Journal of Nutrition Health and Aging stated that dietary silicon is beneficial to bone and connective tissue and helps prevent low bone mass (osteoporosis), which is considered “a silent epidemic of the 21st century.”Silica within DE helps with normal bone metabolism and joint formation, with evidence over the past 30 years suggesting there’s a positive association between dietary silicon intake and better bone mineral density. Thus, DE makes a great addition to any osteoporosis diet and treatment plan.A number of possible mechanisms for how this works have been suggested, including the possibility that silicon helps with synthesis of collagen (used to form joints, the lining of the digestive tract and connective tissue) and within the mineralization of bones. While more research is still needed, it appears that silica supplementation can be used to help support normal metabolic processes, preserve joint health and prevent bone disorders.4. Helps Clean and Protect Skin, Nails and TeethSince it has natural abrasive qualities and kills parasites, DE is used in many toothpastes, skin exfoliators, polishes and skin scrubs. Research suggests that just like other beneficial clays — like bentonite clay benefits and uses — DE dries out harmful toxins and leaves behind clean, smoothed skin with little to side effects.It also seems to have anti-aging effects by helping with the use of calcium in forming strong bones, nails and teeth.Benefits for the Home1. Helps Purify WaterDiatomaceous earth is used in many filtration products, including the trademarked brand name Celite, because its chemical composition makes it a great filtration aid. It’s able to filter very fine particles that otherwise pass through or clog filter papers.This makes it a common product used in water filters to help prevent tap water toxicity and also purification practices for fish tanks. Additionally, it’s also important for manufacturing beer and wine, syrups, sugar, and honey without removing or altering their color, taste or nutritional properties.A study published in the Journal of Applied and Environmental Microbiology found that diatomaceous earth helps kill viruses and purify drinking water. Viruses have been found to be dangerous and abundant in certain sources of drinking water, raising the risk for viral infections and having a significant impact on bacteria and algae populations in the ecosystem.Researchers tested the effects of a filter containing DE on tap water that was contaminated with heavy metals and various viral strains. The results of the study showed that DE helped absorb up to 80 percent of the viruses present, including poliovirus 1, echovirus 5 and coxsackievirus B5, which were all present in tap water even after filtration.2. Kills Insects and Other Harmful Substances in Your HomeIn the U.S., DE is classified under the Federal Insecticide, Fungicide, and Rodenticide Act as a safe substance for household use. How does diatomaceous earth work to get rid of insects?It’s a natural insecticide, since it absorbs lipids from the waxy outer layer of insects’ exoskeletons, which causes them to dehydrate and die of water deficiency. This is why it’sMSM (methylsulfonylmethane) or dimethyl sulfone is a naturally occurring form of organic sulphur that is easily absorbed.In pre-modern times we received this mineral through our diets, however, today most people suffer from chronic MSM deficiencies. Sulphur is an element found in all body cells but most concentrated in the muscles, skin and bones. It is required for the proper assimilation of the sulphur containing amino acids methionine and cysteine; and is required in the formation of many proteins and enzymes. Unfortunately, MSM in foods is mostly lost during food processing, storage and cooking. Levels of sulphur also decline in the body with age.The medicinal properties of biological sulphur are profound and MSM gives the body the tools to maintain its health and vitality.* Nails & Hair mainly consist of Keratin which has a high sulphur content.* In cartilage & skin the sulphur content forms with Collagen to give it structure.As we age the flexible tissues lose their elastic properties and sulphur forms bridges for flexible connections between the cells that allows them to retain their elasticity.Experiments have shown that MSM, after eating, binds to the Mucosa – allergens and parasites cannot bind to Mucosa and so toxins are oxidised, and free radicals eliminated.“The MSM Miracle” states MSM improves the cellular uptake of many nutrients such as Vitamin C, all B-Vitamins, Vitamins A, D, E and amino acids which prolong their lives.Suggested Serving: Take 2 capsules once a day, preferably with food or as directed by your physician.Ingredients: Each capsule contains 460mg of Dimethyl sulfone (methylsulfonylmethane) inside a vegan capsule. 1 serve = 920mg.Please consult your healthcare professional before using any product referred to on this website. The statements and products sold on this website have not been evaluated by the therapeutic goods administration (TGA) and are not intended to diagnose, treat, cure or prevent any disease.SEE What DR AXE has to say.... https://draxe.com/msm-supplement/Read more MSM Supplement Improves Joints, Allergies and Gut Health By Jillian Levy, CHHC October 8, 20186 MSM Supplement Benefits Reduce Osteoarthritis and Joint Pain (mild)A well-researched benefit of MSM is that it helps decrease joint inflammation, improves flexibility and restores collagen production. Research shows that many patients with arthritis, joint pain, stiffness, knee/back problems and a limited range of motion experience a reduction in symptoms and improved quality of life when taking an MSM supplement.MSM supplements are beneficial for helping the body form new joint and muscle tissue while lowering inflammatory responses that contribute to swelling and stiffness. An MSM supplement is a natural and effective anti-inflammatory because of how sulfur impacts the immune system and facilitates normal cellular activity. Sulfur needs to be present for our cells to release many byproducts and excess fluids that can accumulate and cause swelling/tenderness.Read more on a clinical trial testing the effects of MSM on joint pain in 118 patients here2. Improves Digestive Problems Like Leaky Gut SyndromeMSM can help rebuild the lining of the digestive tract and lower inflammation/allergic reactions to certain foods. Read more healing leaky gut syndrome 3. Help repairs Skin Health and Treats Skin Problems Including Rosacea, Allergies, WoundsSome research shows that applying topical cream containing MSM and silymarin helps lower inflammation contributing to rosacea, skin discoloration, allergies or slow wound healing. Read more here4. Lowers Muscle Pain, Muscle Spasms and Even Muscle DamageGood news if your someone who’s regularly active but suffers from muscle pain: Research suggests that MSM can act like a natural analgesic, helping prevent and treat muscle aches and pains, throbbing and swelling while improving range of motion and mobility. Read more here5. Restores Hair GrowthStruggling with thinning hair or balding as you get older? Good news: MSM has been shown to help boost both collagen and keratin levels. Read more here6. Helps the Body Adapt to StressEver hear of “adaptogen herbs” or supplements that help control how the body deals with stress? MSM works similarly, read more hereMSM Supplement Uses?Some of the most common uses for MSM:* mild joint pain including bursitis, tendonitis, the development of scar tissue and other musculoskeletal pains* leaky gut syndrome and autoimmune disorders* allergies and asthma* yeast infections* muscle cramps* constipation, ulcers, upset stomach, indigestion* PMS symptoms (cramps, headaches, water retention, indigestion)* stretch marks* hair loss* skin problems including wrinkles, sun burns (it offers some protection against UV light/wind burn), wounds, cuts, skin abrasions* eye inflammation* poor circulation* high blood pressure* fatigue* oral infections, toothaches, gum disease/periodontal diseaseAre There Any Potential MSM Side Effects?MSM seems to be well-tolerated since it’s completely natural and already found in the human body. There haven’t been many reported side effects of MSM. To date, however, there also haven’t been many large, well-controlled human studies looking at its long-term effects.That being said, MSM is capable of causing mild side effects for some people, including indigestion, upset stomach or diarrhea. It’s also not suitable for people taking blood-thinner medications. If you’re pregnant or unsure, speak with a doctor before taking it regularly.WORM MAGIC WORM MAGICBrewed from worm castingsSupercharged with humic and fulvic acidTonic & medicine for plants, that restores & improved vigour & health & improves the health of soils.Use on all Lawns and plants, including vegetables, herbs, fruit, potted plants and natives.Benefits:* Improves health of soil* Promotes root development* Strong anti-fungal action - helps control black spot, root rot, powdery mildew & other fungal issues.* Minimises transplant shock* Promotes flowering; number & colour, especially cacti, bromeliads & orchids* Helps plants/lawns cope with frosts and heat stress* Can be used as a foliar feed, especially in cooler months* Helps lawn become more drought hardy* Can be added to other fertilisers to improve efficiency* Can be used to initiate & accelerate composting* Will not burn & cannot be overdosed.* Can be used as a seed inoculant, to hasten & improve germination & also makes the seed more fungal resistant.* Helps plant cuttings strike* Helps fix Nitrogen from the atmosphere & deliver to the roots.Application rate:20-40ml/Litre200-400ml/100m220-40Lt/HaDilution rate: 1:50Notes:Due to organic nature of this product, there is some initial smell, but it will quickly dissipate.Shake well before use. Store out of sunlight in cool area.NEEM OIL Bottle may be labelled with Neem Rich - Agricultural Use label but the contents are exactly the same.Our Certified Organic Neem Seed Oil is cold pressed from the fruit of the Neem Tree (Azadirachta Indica). It is 100% pure with no extractions and no additives.Neem Seed Oil is rich in Vitamin E, contains natural organic Sulphur, proteins, vitamins, glycerine and other beneficial Trace Elements. The key active ingredients are Nimbin and Azadirachtin.HOW TO USE:Plant Care: Dilute at a rate 30ml neem to 1L of water, adding a few drops of bio-degradable detergent to help combine the oil with water. Spray directly onto plant leaf, stems & soil. repeat 7 days after intial application, then as required.No masks needed.Skincare: Diluted with a carrier oil such as coconut or olive oil and apply as needed.  Pet care: Dilute into a spray as above and spray around your pet's bedding. Apply to coat/skin as required or add a few drops to shampoo.?For commercial growers dilute at a rate of 200 litres of water to 1 litre neem seed oil.Between 2-3 litres of concentrated spray to 1 hectare is recommended.It can be applied on its own or in conjunction with other liquid fertilisers to improve growth of crops.Non-Toxic. Safe for use around pets & children.In cooler temperature, the oil will tend to thicken (solidification point for Neem Oil is around 14°C) place in warm sunlight or in hot water till liquified. 100% BIODEGRADABLE - NATURAL PLANT OIL.Perfect for the environment and perfect for you!DOLOMITE GRANULESOur Dolomite Granule, is made from recompressed Dolomite Powder, as water is added to the product it will begin to break down fast getting to where it is needed to make a difference in your soil nutrition!Reasons to use Dolomite on your lawns and gardens!1. Neutralizes Soil Acidity: Dolomite lime raises the pH of acidic soils. Grass typically thrives in soil with a pH between 6 and 7. Applying dolomite can help bring your soil closer to this range, making it easier for grass to absorb essential nutrients like nitrogen, phosphorus, and potassium.2. Adds Magnesium and Calcium: Both of these nutrients are crucial for healthy plant growth. Calcium helps strengthen the structure of grass roots and enhances overall growth. Magnesium, a core element of chlorophyll, aids in photosynthesis, leading to greener and more vibrant grass.3. Improves Soil Structure: Dolomite can enhance soil structure by reducing compaction and increasing aeration, especially in clay-heavy soils. Better soil structure improves root penetration and water retention, which benefits the grass.4. Reduces Lawn Weeds: Weeds tend to thrive in acidic soils. By raising the pH with dolomite, you can create an environment that’s less favorable for weeds, giving your grass a better chance to grow without competition.How to Apply Dolomite* Test Soil pH: Before applying dolomite, it’s essential to test the soil pH and magnesium levels. Over-application can lead to nutrient imbalances.* Application Rate: Typically, apply about 5 kilograms per 100 square meters, but this may vary based on your soil's needs.* Timing: Apply dolomite in the autumn or early spring for the best results. It takes a few months to fully break down and affect soil pH.Using dolomite effectively can give you a thicker, greener lawn and healthier soil over time.Lime GranulesAgricultural lime, primarily composed of calcium carbonate (CaCO?), is used in farming to improve soil conditions. Its primary role is to reduce soil acidity (increase pH), which helps create a more favorable environment for plant growth. Here’s a closer look at its uses and benefits:Key Uses and Benefits of Agricultural Lime1. Neutralizing Soil Acidityo Soils can become acidic due to natural leaching, fertilizer use, and organic matter breakdown. Acidic soils can hinder plant growth by making nutrients less available and increasing toxic elements like aluminum.o Agricultural lime helps neutralize acidity, improving soil pH levels, which makes essential nutrients like phosphorus, potassium, and nitrogen more accessible to plants.2. Improving Soil Structureo Lime helps improve soil structure, especially in clay soils, by loosening compacted particles. This improves aeration, water infiltration, and root development, which is essential for healthy crop growth.3. Enhancing Nutrient Availabilityo Many nutrients are more available to plants at a neutral pH level. By raising the pH of acidic soils, lime enhances the availability of calcium and magnesium, along with other key nutrients needed for plant growth.4. Promoting Microbial Activityo Beneficial soil microbes thrive in neutral or slightly alkaline pH levels. Applying lime encourages microbial activity, which promotes organic matter decomposition, nutrient cycling, and healthy soil ecology.5. Reducing Toxicity of Harmful Elementso In acidic soils, toxic metals like aluminum and manganese can become soluble and toxic to plants. Lime reduces soil acidity and thereby reduces the solubility of these harmful elements, making the soil safer for crops.6. Increasing Fertilizer Efficiencyo Acidic soils can tie up nutrients, making fertilizers less effective. By neutralizing soil acidity, lime allows plants to better absorb the nutrients from fertilizers, enhancing crop yields and reducing the need for excess fertilizer.Common Applications of Agricultural Lime* Field Crops: Lime is commonly used on crops like corn, soybeans, wheat, and alfalfa, which require optimal pH levels to achieve high yields.* Gardening and Lawns: In home gardening and lawn care, lime is often applied to improve soil conditions for grass, flowers, and vegetables.* Pastures and Forages: Lime helps improve the growth of pasture grasses and forages, ensuring healthier, more nutrient-dense feed for livestock.Overall, agricultural lime is an essential tool in agriculture, helping to correct soil pH and create optimal growing conditions for a variety of crops.The amount of agricultural lime needed to raise the pH of soil by 1 unit (e.g., from pH 5.5 to pH 6.5) depends on several factors, including:* Soil Type: Sandy soils generally require less lime than clay or loamy soils because they have lower buffering capacity.* Soil Texture: Clay soils, which have more surface area and higher buffering capacity, need more lime than sandy soils to achieve the same pH change.* Soil Buffering Capacity: Soils with a high content of organic matter or minerals like iron, aluminum, or manganese can resist changes in pH and require more lime.General Guidelines for Lime Application* Sandy Soil: Around 50–75 grams of lime per square meter (g/m?) for a 1-pH increase.* Loam Soil: Approximately 75–100 g/m? for a 1-pH increase.* Clay Soil: Typically 100–150 g/m? for a 1-pH increase.Example:If you are applying lime to a loam soil, you would need about 75–100 grams of agricultural lime per square meter to increase the pH by 1 point.Important Considerations:* Soil Testing: It's important to conduct a soil test before applying lime. The test will provide specific recommendations based on your soil's current pH and nutrient levels.* Application Frequency: Lime should be applied in a manner that allows it to gradually alter the soil pH. Applying too much lime at once can cause sudden changes that may harm crops.* Method of Application: Lime should be evenly spread across the soil surface and, if possible, incorporated into the soil for better results. Acelepryn Lawn Grub & Army Worm Control Granular 4kgFor the control of major turf pests including Lawn Army Worm and Lawn Curl Grubs. Suitable for all lawn types. ACELEPRYN Insecticide provides unmatched, season long grub and caterpillar control in a single application. It is now available in a convenient and flexible granule formulation – ACELEPRYN GR. The efficiency and longevity of performance means your turf spaces are protected for longer and because it is exempt from poison scheduling, PPE requirements for workers are reduced. This new no-spray option means ease of use and minimal disruption to the community. ACELEPRYN GR controls a wide range of insect pests including African Black Beetle, Argentinian Scarab, Billbugs and several species of caterpillars including Cutworm, Sod Webworm and Lawn Armyworm. In New Zealand Acelepryn GR is also registered for control of Tasmanian grass grub, New Zealand grass grub, Crane Fly Larvae, and Porina. Classification and SecurityLegal warningPoisons Schedule: ExemptNot classified as hazardous under GHS criteriaPrecautionary Statements* This product is a registered agricultural chemical and must, therefore, be used in accordance with the container label directions.* Each user should read this SDS and consider the information in the context of how the product will be handled and used in the workplace including in conjunction with other products.* FIRST AID: If poisoning occurs, contact a doctor or Poisons Information Centre. Phone 131 126.Other Restriction of UseDO NOT graze treated turf/lawn or feed turf/lawn clipping from any treated area to poultry or livestock.Personal Protective Equipment* No special personal protective equipment is required.* In case of spillage it is important to take all steps necessary to: Avoid eye and skin contact; Avoid contamination of waterwaysApplication AdviceImplementation particular termsThe use of a professional spreader or equivalent that can be calibrated for even output is essential for optimal product performance.The equipment must be calibrated as per the manufacturer’s recommendation to ensure even application over the treated area.Use a drop type, rotary type or hand held application equipment.During application check equipment periodically to ensure distribution remains even and effective.For optimal control, irrigate with approximately 6 mm of water immediately after application (except where treating for caterpillars, when irrigation and mowing should be delayed for 24 hours).DO NOT apply when the soil is saturated with water as adequate distribution of the active ingredient vertically in the soil profile cannot be achieved under this conditionDO NOT apply more than 280 kg product per hectare per year in broadcast applications to turf.Emergency* In a transport emergency dial 000, Police or Fire Brigade.For specialist advice in an emergency only, call 1800 033 111 (24 hours).FEATURES & BENEFITSThe unmatched, season long grub and caterpillar control in a convenient and flexible granule formulation. This no spray option means ease of use and minimal disruption to the community. Controls a wide range of insect pests including African Black Beetle, Argentinian Scarab, Billbugs and several species of caterpillars including Cutworm, Sod Webworm and Lawn Armyworm. Features * Granular formulation that is easy to use * Exempt from poison scheduling * Controls a range of pests and has high turf safety Benefits * No spray equipment required and can be used in difficult to access areas such as schools and parks * PPE requirements for workers are reduced  * Season long control and low environmental impact Coverage - Areas under 1400m2Authorisation Number: AU - 91903/133914Country: Australia & New ZealandPack size: 4 kg or 10kgComposition: 2 g/kgChlorantraniliproleActivity Group: Group 28 InsecticideFormulation: WG (water dispersible granule)BARRICADE pre-emergent herbicide 250mlNOTE - 250ml may be subsituted with Spartan 250ml as stock limits change.For preventative control of weeds before weed germination in established lawns & turf, garden beds and potted plants.* Long lasting preventative weed control for up to 6 months* Can be used in a variety of situations* Controls weeds before they become a problemApply BARRICADE® Pre-Emergent Herbicide before weed germination for preventative control of up to 6 months. Apply in early spring (summer weeds) or late summer to early autumn for Winter Grass. BARRICADE® Pre-Emergent Herbicide does not control weeds that have already germinated; therefore, a post-emergent herbicide should be applied to remove these weeds.Classification and SecurityPrecautionary Statements* DO NOT allow spray or drift to contact recently planted or non-established plants, or vegetable gardens.DO NOT allow chemical containers or spray to get into drains, sewers, streams or ponds.DO NOT replant any crop, ornamentals or overseed with cool season grasses for winter cover to treated areas for a period of 6 months after application.DO NOT allow entry into treated areas until the spray has dried.* FIRST AIDFirst aid is not generally required. If in doubt, contact a Poisons Information Centre (phone Australia 13 11 26) or a doctor.Personal Protective Equipment* SAFETY DIRECTIONSMay irritate the skin, will irritate the eyes. Avoid contact with eyes and skin. When preparing product for use and using the product, wear safety glasses. If product or spray in eyes wash it out immediately with water. Wash hands after use. After each day’s use, wash safety glasses.Application AdviceMixing and sprayingMix BARRICADE® Pre-Emergent Herbicide as per the instructions below into a diluted mixture ready for application. If the diluted solution is left standing for some time, make sure you shake/agitate before use.Mixing – Garden SprayerPrior to opening, shake BARRICADE® Pre-Emergent bottle well.Add half the required amount of water to your garden sprayer.Add the required quantity of BARRICADE® Pre-Emergent to the half full garden sprayer.Add the remaining water required and ensure closed before agitating sprayer.Only mix sufficient spray solution for application area and for the day of mixing.Mixing – Watering CanPrior to opening, shake BARRICADE® Pre-Emergent bottle well.Add half the required amount of water to your watering can.Add the required quantity of BARRICADE® Pre-Emergent to your watering can.Add the remaining water required and use the process to agitate the mixture.Only mix sufficient spray solution for application area and for the day of mixing.Emergency* AUSTRALIA: In a transport emergency dial 000, Police or Fire Brigade. For specialist advice in an emergency only, call 1800 033 111 (24 hours).Coverage - Areas under 1400m2Authorisation Number: 93901/140816Country: AustraliaPack size: 250 mLComposition: 480 g/L ProdiamineActivity Group: Group 3 Herbicide (formerly Group D)Formulation: SC (suspension concentrate)ESTATE® Herbicide 250mlESTATE® Herbicide is Syngenta’s powerful combination of three active ingredients for effective broad-spectrum control of hard-to-kill weeds such as bindii and white clover.Effective across a broad range of warm and cool season turf species, including Buffalo and Kikuyu. This easy-to-use, low-rate formulation reduces the need for manual hand weeding, while improving the appearance and durability of the turf it is applied to – making it more resilient to foot traffic and other environmental stress. ESTATE® provides excellent turf safety, and its non-ester formulation reduces the potential for drift and off-target damage. How does ESTATE® work?The 3-way blend of herbicides work well in combination and play slightly different roles in weed control:- MCPA (Group 4): Moves through the plant accumulating in growing points of the stems interfering with cell division.- Clopyralid (Group 4): Accumulates in the main growing points, causing rapid growth and eventual death.- Diflufenican (Group 12): Inhibits the production of carotenoids, preventing photosynthesis.Classification and SecurityLegal warningThis product complies with the specifications in its statutory registration. Implied terms and warranties are excluded. Syngenta’s liability for breach of the express or any non-excludable implied warranty is limited to product replacement or purchase price refund. The purchaser must determine suitability for intended purpose and take all proper precautions in the handling, storage and use of the product including those on the label and/or safety data sheet failing which Syngenta shall have no liability.Re-entry Period* DO NOT allow entry into treated areas until the spray has dried. When prior entry is necessary wear cotton overalls buttoned to the neck and wrist (or equipment clothing) and chemical resistant gloves. Clothing must be laundered after each day’s use.Precautionary Statements* This product is a registered agricultural chemical and must, therefore, be used in accordance with the container label directions.Each user should read this SDS and consider the information in the context of how the product will be handled and used in the workplace including in conjunction with other products.FIRST AIDAUSTRALIA: If poisoning occurs, contact a doctor or Poisons Information Centre. Phone 131 126.Personal Protective Equipment* Harmful if swallowed. Will damage the eyes. Will irritate skin. Avoid contact with eyes and skin. If product in eyes, wash it out immediately with water. Wash hands after use. When opening the container, preparing the spray and using the prepared spray wear:• cotton overalls buttoned to the neck and wrist,• washable hat,• elbow-length PVC gloves and• goggles.After each day’s use, wash gloves, goggles and contaminated clothing.Application AdviceImplementation particular termsDO NOT apply if weeds or turf are under stress or when frosts are imminent.DO NOT use if rain is expected within 4 hours.DO NOT use clippings as mulch around other plants or for composting.DO NOT use on bent grass or winter grass golf and bowling greens.Mixing and sprayingShake original container before use. Continuously agitate the diluted product to ensure thorough mixing before and during application.Only mix sufficient chemical for each day’s work.Surfactants (if used) should be added after Estate® Herbicide and water are mixed when spray-tank is almost full.THOROUGHLY CLEAN ALL APPLICATION EQUIPMENT AFTER USE.Rinse water should be discharged onto a designated area or if unavailable onto unused land away from desirable plants and water courses.Water volumeRegistered rate: 5 L in 200-500 L water/haThe required water volume may be determined by applying different test volumes, using different settings on the sprayer, from industry guidelines or expert advice.CompatibilityNo information is available that indicates physical compatibility with other products therefore, tank-mixing other products with Estate® Herbicide is not recommended. As formulations of other manufacturer’s products are beyond the control of Syngenta Australia Pty Ltd, all mixtures should be tested prior to mixing commercial quantitiesEmergency* In a transport emergency dial 000, Police or Fire Brigade. For specialist advice in an emergency only, call 1800 033 111 (24 hours).Coverage - Areas under 1400m2, Authorisation Number: AU-95166/144840 | NZ-HSR100816Country: Australia & New ZealandPack size: 250 mLComposition: 300g/L MCPA20g/L CLOPYRALID15g/L DIFLUFENICANActivity Group: Group 4 & 12 HerbicideFormulation: SC (suspension concentrate)MONUMENT LIQUID Turf Herbicide 100mlFor the control of Sedges, Grasses and Broadleaf Weeds in Turf.MONUMENT LIQUID Turf Herbicide is the best sedge, broadleaf and grass control partner in couch. It can be used for post-emergent weed management and is ideal for taking out oversown ryegrass in spring. MONUMENT LIQUID is a selective herbicide for application after emergence of weeds, for control of certain weeds in established turf. MONUMENT LIQUID is an oil dispersion formulation that mixes readily with water and is applied as a spray.Classification and SecurityRe-entry Period* DO NOT allow entry into treated areas until the spray has dried unless wearing cotton overalls buttoned to the neck and wrist (or equivalent clothing), and chemical resistant gloves. Clothing must be laundered after each day’s use.Precautionary Statements* This product is a registered agricultural chemical and must, therefore, be used in accordance with the container label directions.* Each user should read this SDS and consider the information in the context of how the product will be handled and used in the workplace including in conjunction with other products.* FIRST AID: If poisoning occurs, contact a doctor or Poisons Information Centre. Phone 131 126. If swallowed, DO NOT induce vomiting. Give a glass of water.Personal Protective Equipment* Will irritate eyes and skin. May irritate nose and throat. Avoid contact with eyes and skin. DO NOT inhale vapour or spray mist.* When opening the container, mixing and loading, preparing spray and using the prepared spray wear:o cotton overalls buttoned to the neck and wrist (or equivalent clothing)o elbow-length chemical resistant gloves* If product on skin, immediately wash area with soap and water. Wash hands after use.* After each day’s use wash gloves and contaminated clothing.Application AdviceTank mixingMONUMENT LIQUID can be tank mixed with Primo Maxx and Primo 250 EC.MONUMENT LIQUID mixes readily with water, no pre-mixing is required. If pH of water is less than 5.5, use a buffer solution to raise pH to near 7.0.DO NOT mix MONUMENT LIQUID with acid forming compounds in the spray tank.Tank mix preparationThis product must be mixed with water and applied by suitable spray equipment.1. Clean the spray tank before using. If it is contaminated with other materials, mixing problems and/or clogging may occur, or injury to the turf may result.2. Fill tank no more than 25% full with clean water before adding MONUMENT LIQUID. Begin agitating tank contents vigorously and continue agitation during entire mixing and spraying operation.3. Pour required amount of MONUMENT LIQUID steadily into tank. Allow vigorous bypass agitation to completely disperse product.4. After adding required quantity of MONUMENT LIQUID and obtaining complete dispersion, continue to fill tank to desired level for spraying.5. Add required quantity of non-ionic surfactant if using and continue agitation.6. Thorough agitation (preferably mechanical) of the spray liquid is essential during the addition of the product and during the entire spraying operation. Recirculate if left to stand.Implementation particular termsNote: Spray solution should NOT be left standing in the tank overnight.Non-ionic Surfactants: Use Agral (600 g ai/L) at 0.42% v/v or 420 mL/100 L spray mix. Alternatively use other quality non-ionic surfactants (1000 g ai/L formulations) at 0.25% v/v or 250 mL/100 L spray mix.Mixing and sprayingApply to actively growing weeds during early stages of development for best results. For optimum performance avoid mowing for 1 to 2 days prior to and following application.Water volumeEnsure product placement as uniformly as possible onto leaves and into crowns. Ideal application volume should be 400 to 800 L/ha.RainfastnessMONUMENT LIQUID is rainfast within 3 hours of application.FEATURES & BENEFITS* MONUMENT LIQUID Turf Herbicide is the best sedge, broadleaf and grass control partner in couch. It can be used for post-emergent weed management and is ideal for taking out oversown ryegrass in spring. Features Benefits o Highly effective control of Winter Grass, Ryegrass, sedges and a wide range of broadleaf weeds as well as Kikuyu suppression. o Convenient liquid formulation with low environmental loading o Fully systemic action with root, shoot and leaf uptake o Excellent resistance management strategy when used in combination with BARRICADE Turf Herbicide o Long lasting herbicidal action so follow up applications are rarely needed Emergency* In a transport emergency dial 000, Police or Fire Brigade.For specialist advice in an emergency only, call 1800 033 111 (24 hours).Coverage - Areas under 1400m2Herbicide - Professional TurfAuthorisation Number: AU - 62571Country: AustraliaPack size: 100 mLComposition: 100 g/L Trifloxysulfuron SodiumActivity Group: Group 2 Herbicide (formerly Group B)Formulation: OD (oil dispersion formulation)TRIMMIT® 100mlFor control of growth in hedging plants, TRIMMIT® Growth Regulator is now available in a 100 mL container.TRIMMIT® Growth Regulator reduces hedge growth by up to 70%*, helping you achieve a better looking, more uniform hedge with less maintenance.TRIMMIT® is a systemic growth regulator that reduces internode lengths of new shoots and causes earlier formation of terminal buds. Use of TRIMMIT® should begin only when plants are nearing their optimum size, that is once the desired shape (height, width and foliar density) has already been achieved and the plant requires only maintenance thereafter. *Scientific trials of Murraya, however different species may respond to TRIMMIT® with less effect.* Featureso Systemic growth regulator that reduces internode lengths of new shoots and causes earlier formation of terminal budso Economical application ratesBenefitso Reduction in required labouro Less green waste for disposalo Less HSE requirements, eg. traffic control, ladders, trimmerso Improved drought toleranceo Deeper, greener colour of hedgesClassification and SecurityPrecautionary Statements* This product is a registered agricultural chemical and must, therefore, be used in accordance with the container label directions.* Each user should read this SDS and consider the information in the context of how the product will be handled and used in the workplace including in conjunction with other products.* FIRST AID: If poisoning occurs, contact a doctor or Poisons Information Centre. Phone 131 126.Personal Protective Equipment* Avoid contact with the eyes and skin. After use and before eating, drinking or smoking, wash hands, arms and face thoroughly with soap and water.Application AdviceTank mixingMix required volume of TRIMMIT with recommended volume of water. Maintain agitation to prevent settling.Mixing and sprayingRoot Drench: Uptake of TRIMMIT is most efficient when it is applied to soil which receives adequate water and where there is a high density of feeder roots. Apply required amount of TRIMMIT in 1 L water per plant. Ensure all treated plants are lightly irrigated following treatment under dry conditions. Individual trees or plants which are smaller than average should be left untreated or given a proportionally smaller dose of TRIMMIT.Water volumeApplications must cover the root system adjacent to the stem at ground level. Remove mulch to ensure application reaches soil. Light post application irrigation is recommended.Emergency* In a transport emergency dial 000, Police or Fire Brigade. For specialist advice in an emergency only, call 1800 033 111 (24 hours).Coverage - Areas under 1400m2, Professional Turf.   Rates start at 0.5 mL/plant to 2.5 mL/plant.Authorisation Number: AU- 82071Country: Australia Pack size: 100 mLComposition: 250 g/L PaclobutrazolFormulation: SC (suspension concentrate)EZFLO Home garden fertigation system Introducing the NEW 2.8L size – it’s the perfect size for most home gardens and lawns. If you’re looking for the best way to apply liquid or soluble granular fertiliser – you’ve found it. It simply connects between the tap and hose, adding fertiliser as you water. It is strongly recommended to use a vacuum breaker on your tap if connected to your city water supply. They're available on our website. https://www.plantdoctor.com.au/ezflo-tap-hose-vacuum-breakerForget using watering cans, backpack sprayers and plain old water, join thousands of other Australians and New Zealanders using EZ-FLO to boost the health and look of their lawns, veggie plots and gardens. Fill EZ-FLO with your chosen fertiliser or nutrient, and use every drop of water from your garden hose to deliver the nutrients and fertiliser your plants and lawn need.Supplied with Australian-specific fittings (USA version may leak here in Australia), it includes all parts plus quick snap-on fittings.Fill capacity: 2.8 Litres (liquid) or 2.8 kg (water-soluble) approximate.  However, your choice to fill with any amount: 500 grams, 1 kg or 2.8 kg, top up with water.Suggested applications: Domestic gardens and lawns, nursery, greenhouses, green walls, vertical gardens, vegetable plots + more.Litres of treated water per full refill: 280 on fast ( 100:1) setting– 2,800 Litres on slow (1000:1) settingBuying as a bundle?Add: 2.5L of Lawn Envy and top up with water to ensure the entire unit is filled with liquid to create a vacuum. A 10L Lawn Envy will provide 4 x refills.Dimensions: 30cm Height x 18 cm DiameterParts in Kit:  2.8 litre premium PVC tank, mixing cap, 1.5 m feeding tubes, liquid adapter, HDPE/PVC tap adapter complete with quick snap on fittings standard; optional tap fittings to suit 13mm standard hose fitting.Check out The Aussie Lawn's installation guide: https://youtu.be/mB_-XyGT5DYhttps://www.ezflo.com.au/videos/An easy way to apply concentrated fertilisers to your lawn, plants and gardens.As easy as adding your concentrated liquid fertilisers (together if they are compatible) directly into its cannister, connect to the hose or irrigation system, adjust the setting to the dilution rate/amount of fertiliser to be applied (4 settings from fast to slow that correspond to the recommended application rates on the products) and away you go.If connecting to a hose, you can hose straight on with your normal hose nozzle or even connect a sprinkler (and timer if you like) and let it do he hard work for you.Great for small lawn maintenance businesses or larger properties too as you can set and leave, then move to the next area as required, fertilising whilst you’re doing other maintenance.What is EZ-FLO?EZ-FLO is the fastest and easiest way to have healthy plants, turf and crops. Comes in a range of sizes to suit a broad range of applications, from residential gardens to commercial golf courses and small crops.Dispenses a precise amount of concentrated fertiliser every time you water. No matter how small or large your property is you can take advantage of EZ-FLO products to save money, conserve valuable resources, and fertilise more efficiently and quickly.Getting StartedStart by selecting a water soluble or liquid fertiliser. With EZ-FLO you do not need to pre-mix or dilute your fertiliser ever again. Fill your EZ-FLO tank with your concentrated fertiliser, top up fully with water and select the setting (ratio) on the cap and get ready for automatic fertigation.Hose and drip models have injection settings of 1:100 (fast), 1:250, 1:400 or 1:1000 (slow).Main-line models installed into irrigation lines have injection settings of 1:400 (fast), 1:2000, 1:8000 or 1:15000 (slow).You can use EZ-FLO for microdosing – where small amounts of fertiliser are applied every time you water – by selecting the ‘slow’ setting. At 1:1.000 one litre of concentrate is displaced for every thousand litres of water if using the hose and drip system and 1:15.000 if using the main-line systems.Microdosing is beneficial as plants can absorb nutrients immediately. This creates a robust root system, generating healthier plants with less water, and it also reduces fertiliser run-off.How it worksEZ-FLO requires either a hose tap adapter for residential systems or for permanent irrigation a main inline adapter (CBV). These provide a slight pressure drop allowing a small stream of water from the hose or irrigation pipe to enter the EZ-FLO, displace the fertiliser concentrate, then re-introduce it back into the main water stream where it is diluted.As water enters the tank separation is achieved – heavier concentrate on the bottom and lighter water on the top. EZ-FLO only pulls concentrate from the bottom of the tank; it does not dilute the concentrate.The result is consistent levels of fertiliser throughout the whole cycle until the fertiliser is depleted and is replaced with water.EZ-FLO has no moving parts, requires zero maintenance and zero power.The ease of use sets EZ-FLO apart from competing fertigation technologies – it’s so EZ(y)What is fertigation?Healthy plants are not achieved with water alone, they also need nutrients.As the name implies, fertigation is the process by which fertiliser is applied with irrigation water. Fertiliser + irrigation = fertigation.Historically, the technique of fertigation was used in commercial agriculture and horticulture. By applying fertiliser through irrigation water, you have superior control over the timing, quantity and concentration of fertiliser applied.Environmental benefitsTraditional methods of fertilising such as hand or machine broadcasting of granular fertiliser and mechanical or hand spraying of liquid fertiliser have multiple disadvantages, including; uneven distribution, inefficient use of fertiliser resulting in wastage and run off, time-consuming application processes and a high price tag.Fertigation optimises yield and minimises environmental pollution by reducing fertiliser consumption and maximising fertiliser efficiency.Fertilise each time you waterFertigation can be easily achieved with EZ-FLO microdosing technology, which applies a small dose of fertiliser every time you irrigate.With nine US patents and two international patents, EZ-FLO microdosing technology proportions fertiliser into the irrigation water stream at very low parts per million (PPM) ratios. This technology has the ability to solubilise highly concentrated, water-soluble or liquid fertilisers and accurately proportion them into the irrigation water stream at variable rates.EZ-FLO makes fertigation, the most effective and least expensive method of delivering nutrients to plants, accessible for both commercial and residential applications.Microdosing with EZ-FLOBenefits of microdosing fertigationMicrodosing fertiliser application is more effective and consistent. Fertiliser is not only applied wherever the water goes but every time you irrigate.You have designed your irrigation for efficient cover, so with microdosing fertilisers are applied at the root, not in the gutter. This means less wastage through run off.Because you are applying small amounts of dissolved fertiliser, there is not large quantities of solid fertiliser in contact with the air hence evaporation of fertiliser, especially nitrogen, is virtually eliminated.Research indicates microdosing can reduce fertiliser consumption by up to 60%.Spoon feedingBecause you are spoon feeding your plants with microdosing, nutrients are immediately available to them. About 90-95% of microdosed fertiliser is absorbed by the plant roots and leaves.Microdosing eliminates the feast and famine cycle of conventional fertilising methods thus improving plant health because your plants never want for a feed. This helps make plants less susceptible to insects and disease because they attack weak plants.Improved root development from microdosing saves water, it gives plants with a healthier root structure which is more drought resistant because it is more efficient at absorbing water. Some research estimates up to a 50% reduction in water requirements.Reduce your waterWhen you introduce microdosing, we recommend you immediately reduce your water by 10% for the first fertiliser cycle. Cut back by another 10% for the second cycle and 5% for the third. Continue reducing each cycle by 5% until you find the right balance for your plants based on the products you are using and your soil type.Microdosing saves time and money by eliminating the prolonged manual application process. It also reduces soil compaction because it eliminates the need for any heavy machinery.EZ-FLO AdvantageWhat makes EZ-FLO stand out from the competition?The simplicity is on our list; it’s not called EZ-FLO (pronounced ‘easy flow’) for nothing. But having said this is the number one advantage, we have probably done EZ-FLO an injustice because there are so many advantages.Fewer product limitationsEZ-FLO is filled with concentrated liquid or water-soluble products, so pre-mixing is unnecessary. As a result, EZ-FLO offers at least a 10X reduction in the tank capacity required compared to other systems.EZ-FLO is suitable for a large range of products, not just fertiliser. It can dispense any water-soluble product with a specific gravity greater than that of water including soil amendments, wetting agents, acid, pre-emergent herbicides, growth regulators and insect control. The applications are only limited by your imagination!Unique productEZ-FLO is unlike other differential pressure systems because it uses dynamic suspension and proprietary fluid flow technology. This patented technology ensures the incoming water displaces the fertiliser but does not dilute it in the tank. The concentration of fertiliser output is constant over the whole cycle.EZ-FLO offers accurate proportioning of fertiliser and automatically adjusts to different pressure and flow for multi-zone irrigation. It is a true ‘Set and Forget’ product. Applicable operating ranges are 30-800 kPa pressure and irrigation flows from 0.3 Litres per minute to 23m3 per minute. Microdosing from 1:75 to 1: 1.5 million is possible.There are no moving parts in the EZ-FLO and it does not require electricity to run making it maintenance free. We have no need of complicated computers to make it work.EZ-FLO can operate from a tap for smaller units through to irrigation mainline or lateral.Additional featuresThere is a wide range of sizing in EZ-FLO systems so you can select a product based on your irrigation cycle or how often you wish to refill the unit.EZ-FLO never runs dry. The fertiliser is displaced with water so at the end of the cycle, the EZ-FLO is full of water. It can just sit there with no detrimental effect until you are ready to fill the unit.EZ-FLO is a proven world leader in injection equipment for the horticultural industry with a 25-year history of quality and reliability which has set us apart from many competing technologies.https://www.ezflo.com.au/wp-content/uploads/2018/01/Hose-and-drip-manual-au-2017.pdfQuestions:How to connect this to my irrigation system? And does having a pressure pump make any difference?What is the max pressure and flow rates?Answer: The units you have (1010-HB) are our hose and tap systems, they are designed to fit onto a tap and used with a hose or can be plumbed to a drip system or small sprayer from the tap. The adapter supplied only works with general house hose flow rates. They can operate to approx. 80 to 90 psi.The same units can also be adapted to fit to irrigation systems and are marketed as the EZFLO1 series. They are supplied with heavy duty shut off 6mm valves and either a 20mm or 25mm CBV. CBV being the item that connects the persons irrigation mains to the EZFLO tank and is fitted to persons irrigation line. For the rest it is the same operation but with lower injection ratios. Slow injection being 15000:1 as opposed to slow on the hose system being 1000:1. Ratio in respect to EZFLO injection is on slow meaning 15000 litres of water being applied to your garden will use up 1 litre of fert.Either a pump or mains water can be used, makes no difference, flow rate is what makes it work NOT pressure.Questions:Is it law to (or is it essential) to have a backflow valve? Do you sell these?Can there be backflow issues if using without a backflow device? Will this be prevented if disconnecting after use?Answer: Any person injecting something other than water into a town supplied mains is required to comply to local plumbing regulations and generally if the connection is fixed requires a RPZ (Reduced Pressure Zone backflow preventer valves), these need to be fitted by a plumber. If the connection is not fixed like on a tap a simple vacuum breaker at $15.00 is all that needs to be fitted.As we are an aspirating device, meaning fertiliser is only injected if water flow is present no back flow is possible using EZFLO, however that does not satisfy the plumbing regulations as you are adding substances other than water. Duty of care dictates we highlight this in our literature and manuals.As we are adding substances that are conducive to plant growth, and with your mostly organic products, I personally feel there is no danger whatsoever. WE do not inject harsh chemicals. Again, follow local regulations.Questions:Is there a way to connect it (EZFLO 1010-HB) to a bore system?Is the basic system (EZFLO 1010-HB) the best for this type of use or is there another better system?Answer: For the average home gardener our EZFLO1 is suitable, it is only when the yard is bigger and the person only wants to refill less often that you go up in the range, say the EZ001CX our baby mainline unit with 5.7 litre capacity instead of 3.2 litre for the EZFLO1.AND if you are a sports field you go to our HCV112 a model that contains 112 litres of fertiliser. And works the same.The product range all works the same.Just that the pipe sizes where say you want to inject into an 80mm mains at a sports field or a 20mm mains (CBV075) at your place.So, you could have a 112 litre model at your place and have a 20mm adapter instead of having an EZFLO1 with 20mm adapter. Difference: you refill an EZFLO1 every week or so and the 112 litre unit every 2nd year. We sell 16 different tank sizes to suit the size of the property refill frequency and sell 8 different size adapters to suit the persons irrigation mains size, they all work the same and are designed for any irrigation system and property size.Contact Plant Doctor with your exact specifications of current system including fittings etc. and the area you’re looking to cover, and we can recommend the best unit and components to do the job.Question: Is the EZFLO just an overpriced venturi?Answer: No, we are not a venturi!We are a differential dynamic suspension system, the only type in the world and operate under 9 patents.A venturi is a device that sucks a pre-made solution out of a bucket, drum etc. it has to have a high pressure to suck and also loses a lot of pressure in the process. It is cheap and ideal for a one-off application of a small amount. It requires fiddling and a bit of prep to get the right amount into the stream of water. It sells well because it is cheap and sells well because people may not be aware of our major advantages over a venturi device.Our hose and drip system is self-contained and can operate at tap pressures from 5 to 80 psi. It can also operate from 2 litres per minute to 30 litres per minute with only minor pressure losses to the system.However, our system really shines with the fact that instead of making a solution you just fill it with concentrated fertiliser.  Our small unit will hold 4kg of powdered fertiliser or 3.2 litre of concentrated liquid.To adjust the amount of fertiliser you want to inject, you just turn the knob on the cap. No fiddle!Our small 1010hb when filled with 4kg is equivalent to approx. 200 x watering cans, 60 x end of hose units and if you dissolved 250 grams in each bucket for venturi operation to 16 venturi fill/empty cycles.All without the fiddle, time wasting and more fiddle.Accurate sustainable fertilising.Fill the tank, click on to tap, turn on the hose and walk the hose (or connect to a sprinkler), text your friends whilst doing it, simple. Suck on a beer or coffee.We compare our system to somebody using scissors to do their lawn (venturi, watering can, spray pack etc.) instead of using a cylinder mower (EZFLO), they do the same thing, but one takes a lot more time, may be uneven and the EZFLO produces a consistent quality product, all the time.EZFLO Home garden fertigation system The 1010-HB model is our best seller! There’s a reason this 3.2L tank outsells them all – it’s the perfect size for most home gardens and lawns. If you’re looking for the best way to apply liquid or soluble granular fertiliser – you’ve found it. It simply connects between the tap and hose adding fertiliser as you water.Forget using watering cans, backpack sprayers and plain old water, join thousands of other Australians and New Zealanders using EZ-FLO to boost the health and look of their lawns, veggie plots and gardens. Simply fill EZ-FLO with your chosen fertiliser or nutrient and start utilising every drop of water from your garden hose to deliver the nutrients and fertiliser your plants and lawn need.Supplied with Australian-specific fittings (USA version will leak here in Australia) includes all parts plus quick snap-on fittings.Fill capacity: 3.2 Litres (liquid) or 3.2 kg (water-soluble) approximate.  However, your choice to fill with any amount; 500 grams, 1 kg or 3.2 kg, just top up with water.Suggested applications: Domestic gardens and lawns, nursery, greenhouses, green walls, vertical gardens, vegetable plots + more.Litres of treated water per full refill: 320 on fast ( 100:1) setting– 3,200 Litres on slow (1000:1) settingDimensions: 30cm Height x 18 cm DiameterParts in Kit:  3.2-litre premium PVC tank, mixing cap, 1.5 m feeding tubes, liquid adapter, brass tap adapter complete with quick snap on fittings standard; optional tap fittings to suit 13mm standard hose fitting.Check out The Aussie Lawn's installation guide: https://youtu.be/mB_-XyGT5DYAn easy way to apply concentrated fertilisers to your lawn, plants and gardens.As easy as adding your concentrated liquid fertilisers (together if they are compatible) directly into its cannister, connect to the hose or irrigation system, adjust the setting to the dilution rate/amount of fertiliser to be applied (4 settings from fast to slow that correspond to the recommended application rates on the products) and away you go.If connecting to a hose, you can hose straight on with your normal hose nozzle or even connect a sprinkler (and timer if you like) and let it do he hard work for you.Great for small lawn maintenance businesses or larger properties too as you can set and leave, then move to the next area as required, fertilising whilst you’re doing other maintenance.What is EZ-FLO?EZ-FLO is the fastest and easiest way to have healthy plants, turf and crops. Comes in a range of sizes to suit a broad range of applications, from residential gardens to commercial golf courses and small crops.Dispenses a precise amount of concentrated fertiliser every time you water. No matter how small or large your property is you can take advantage of EZ-FLO products to save money, conserve valuable resources, and fertilise more efficiently and quickly.Getting StartedStart by selecting a water soluble or liquid fertiliser. With EZ-FLO you do not need to pre-mix or dilute your fertiliser ever again. Fill your EZ-FLO tank with your concentrated fertiliser, top up fully with water and select the setting (ratio) on the cap and get ready for automatic fertigation.Hose and drip models have injection settings of 1:100 (fast), 1:250, 1:400 or 1:1000 (slow).Main-line models installed into irrigation lines have injection settings of 1:400 (fast), 1:2000, 1:8000 or 1:15000 (slow).You can use EZ-FLO for microdosing – where small amounts of fertiliser are applied every time you water – by selecting the ‘slow’ setting. At 1:1.000 one litre of concentrate is displaced for every thousand litres of water if using the hose and drip system and 1:15.000 if using the main-line systems.Microdosing is beneficial as plants can absorb nutrients immediately. This creates a robust root system, generating healthier plants with less water, and it also reduces fertiliser run-off.How it worksEZ-FLO requires either a hose tap adapter for residential systems or for permanent irrigation a main inline adapter (CBV). These provide a slight pressure drop allowing a small stream of water from the hose or irrigation pipe to enter the EZ-FLO, displace the fertiliser concentrate, then re-introduce it back into the main water stream where it is diluted.As water enters the tank separation is achieved – heavier concentrate on the bottom and lighter water on the top. EZ-FLO only pulls concentrate from the bottom of the tank; it does not dilute the concentrate.The result is consistent levels of fertiliser throughout the whole cycle until the fertiliser is depleted and is replaced with water.EZ-FLO has no moving parts, requires zero maintenance and zero power.The ease of use sets EZ-FLO apart from competing fertigation technologies – it’s so EZ(y)What is fertigation?Healthy plants are not achieved with water alone, they also need nutrients.As the name implies, fertigation is the process by which fertiliser is applied with irrigation water. Fertiliser + irrigation = fertigation.Historically, the technique of fertigation was used in commercial agriculture and horticulture. By applying fertiliser through irrigation water, you have superior control over the timing, quantity and concentration of fertiliser applied.Environmental benefitsTraditional methods of fertilising such as hand or machine broadcasting of granular fertiliser and mechanical or hand spraying of liquid fertiliser have multiple disadvantages, including; uneven distribution, inefficient use of fertiliser resulting in wastage and run off, time-consuming application processes and a high price tag.Fertigation optimises yield and minimises environmental pollution by reducing fertiliser consumption and maximising fertiliser efficiency.Fertilise each time you waterFertigation can be easily achieved with EZ-FLO microdosing technology, which applies a small dose of fertiliser every time you irrigate.With nine US patents and two international patents, EZ-FLO microdosing technology proportions fertiliser into the irrigation water stream at very low parts per million (PPM) ratios. This technology has the ability to solubilise highly concentrated, water-soluble or liquid fertilisers and accurately proportion them into the irrigation water stream at variable rates.EZ-FLO makes fertigation, the most effective and least expensive method of delivering nutrients to plants, accessible for both commercial and residential applications.Microdosing with EZ-FLOBenefits of microdosing fertigationMicrodosing fertiliser application is more effective and consistent. Fertiliser is not only applied wherever the water goes but every time you irrigate.You have designed your irrigation for efficient cover, so with microdosing fertilisers are applied at the root, not in the gutter. This means less wastage through run off.Because you are applying small amounts of dissolved fertiliser, there is not large quantities of solid fertiliser in contact with the air hence evaporation of fertiliser, especially nitrogen, is virtually eliminated.Research indicates microdosing can reduce fertiliser consumption by up to 60%.Spoon feedingBecause you are spoon feeding your plants with microdosing, nutrients are immediately available to them. About 90-95% of microdosed fertiliser is absorbed by the plant roots and leaves.Microdosing eliminates the feast and famine cycle of conventional fertilising methods thus improving plant health because your plants never want for a feed. This helps make plants less susceptible to insects and disease because they attack weak plants.Improved root development from microdosing saves water, it gives plants with a healthier root structure which is more drought resistant because it is more efficient at absorbing water. Some research estimates up to a 50% reduction in water requirements.Reduce your waterWhen you introduce microdosing, we recommend you immediately reduce your water by 10% for the first fertiliser cycle. Cut back by another 10% for the second cycle and 5% for the third. Continue reducing each cycle by 5% until you find the right balance for your plants based on the products you are using and your soil type.Microdosing saves time and money by eliminating the prolonged manual application process. It also reduces soil compaction because it eliminates the need for any heavy machinery.EZ-FLO AdvantageWhat makes EZ-FLO stand out from the competition?Top of our list is the simplicity; it’s not called EZ-FLO (pronounced ‘easy flow’) for nothing. But having said this is the number one advantage, we have probably done EZ-FLO an injustice, because there are so many advantages.Fewer product limitationsEZ-FLO is filled with concentrated liquid or water-soluble products so there is no need to pre-mix. As a result, EZ-FLO offers at least a 10X reduction in the tank capacity required compared to other systems.EZ-FLO is suitable for a large range of products, not just fertiliser. It can dispense any water-soluble product with a specific gravity greater than that of water including soil amendments, wetting agents, acid, pre-emergent herbicides, growth regulators and insect control. The applications are only limited by your imagination!Unique productEZ-FLO is unlike other differential pressure systems because it uses dynamic suspension and proprietary fluid flow technology. This patented technology ensures the incoming water displaces the fertiliser but does not dilute it in the tank. The concentration of fertiliser output is constant over the whole cycle.EZ-FLO offers accurate proportioning of fertiliser and automatically adjusts to different pressure and flow for multi-zone irrigation. It is a true ‘Set and Forget’ product. Applicable operating ranges are 30-800 kPa pressure and irrigation flows from 0.3 Litres per minute to 23m3 per minute. Microdosing from 1:75 to 1: 1.5 million is possible.There are no moving parts in the EZ-FLO and it does not require electricity to run making it maintenance free. We have no need of complicated computers to make it work.EZ-FLO can operate from a tap for smaller units through to irrigation mainline or lateral.Additional featuresThere is a wide range of sizing in EZ-FLO systems so you can select a product based on your irrigation cycle or how often you wish to refill the unit.EZ-FLO never runs dry. The fertiliser is displaced with water so at the end of the cycle, the EZ-FLO is full of water. It can just sit there with no detrimental effect until you are ready to fill the unit.EZ-FLO is a proven world leader in injection equipment for the horticultural industry with a 25-year history of quality and reliability which has set us apart from many competing technologies. https://www.ezflo.com.au/wp-content/uploads/2018/01/Hose-and-drip-manual-au-2017.pdfQuestions: How to connect this to my irrigation system? And does having a pressure pump make any difference? What is the max pressure and flow rates?Answer: The units you have (1010-HB) are our hose and tap systems, they are designed to fit onto a tap and used with a hose or can be plumbed to a drip system or small sprayer from the tap. The adapter supplied only works with general house hose flow rates. They can operate to approx. 80 to 90 psi.The same units can also be adapted to fit to irrigation systems and are marketed as the EZFLO1 series. They are supplied with heavy duty shut off 6mm valves and either a 20mm or 25mm CBV. CBV being the item that connects the persons irrigation mains to the EZFLO tank and is fitted to persons irrigation line. For the rest it is the same operation but with lower injection ratios. Slow injection being 15000:1 as opposed to slow on the hose system being 1000:1. Ratio in respect to EZFLO injection is on slow meaning 15000 litres of water being applied to your garden will use up 1 litre of fert.Either a pump or mains water can be used, makes no difference, flow rate is what makes it work NOT pressure.Questions:Is it law to (or is it essential) to have a backflow valve? Do you sell these? Can there be backflow issues if using without a backflow device? Will this be prevented if disconnecting after use?Answer: Any person injecting something other than water into a town supplied mains is required to comply to local plumbing regulations and generally if the connection is fixed requires a RPZ (Reduced Pressure Zone backflow preventer valves), these need to be fitted by a plumber. If the connection is not fixed like on a tap a simple vacuum breaker at $15.00 is all that needs to be fitted.As we are an aspirating device, meaning fertiliser is only injected if water flow is present no back flow is possible using EZFLO, however that does not satisfy the plumbing regulations as you are adding substances other than water. Duty of care dictates we highlight this in our literature and manuals.As we are adding substances that are conducive to plant growth, and with your mostly organic products, I personally feel there is no danger whatsoever. WE do not inject harsh chemicals. Again, follow local regulations.Questions: Is there a way to connect it (EZFLO 1010-HB) to a bore system? Is the basic system (EZFLO 1010-HB) the best for this type of use or is there another better system?Answer: For the average home gardener our EZFLO1 is suitable, it is only when the yard is bigger and the person only wants to refill less often that you go up in the range, say the EZ001CX our baby mainline unit with 5.7 litre capacity instead of 3.2 litre for the EZFLO1.AND if you are a sports field you go to our HCV112 a model that contains 112 litres of fertiliser. And works the same.The product range all works the same.Just that the pipe sizes where say you want to inject into an 80mm mains at a sports field or a 20mm mains (CBV075) at your place.So, you could have a 112 litre model at your place and have a 20mm adapter instead of having an EZFLO1 with 20mm adapter. Difference: you refill an EZFLO1 every week or so and the 112 litre unit every 2nd year. We sell 16 different tank sizes to suit the size of the property refill frequency and sell 8 different size adapters to suit the persons irrigation mains size, they all work the same and are designed for any irrigation system and property size.Contact Plant Doctor with your exact specifications of current system including fittings etc. and the area you’re looking to cover, and we can recommend the best unit and components to do the job.Question: Is the EZFLO just an overpriced venturi?Answer: No, we are not a venturi!We are a differential dynamic suspension system, the only type in the world and operate under 9 patents.A venturi is a device that sucks a pre-made solution out of a bucket, drum etc. it has to have a high pressure to suck and also loses a lot of pressure in the process. It is cheap and ideal for a one-off application of a small amount. It requires fiddling and a bit of prep to get the right amount into the stream of water. It sells well because it is cheap and sells well because people may not be aware of our major advantages over a venturi device.Our hose and drip system is self-contained and can operate at tap pressures from 5 to 80 psi. It can also operate from 2 litres per minute to 30 litres per minute with only minor pressure losses to the system.However, our system really shines with the fact that instead of making a solution you just fill it with concentrated fertiliser.  Our small unit will hold 4kg of powdered fertiliser or 3.2 litre of concentrated liquid.To adjust the amount of fertiliser you want to inject, you just turn the knob on the cap. No fiddle!Our small 1010hb when filled with 4kg is equivalent to approx. 200 x watering cans, 60 x end of hose units and if you dissolved 250 grams in each bucket for venturi operation to 16 venturi fill/empty cycles.All without the fiddle, time wasting and more fiddle.Accurate sustainable fertilising.Fill the tank, click on to tap, turn on the hose and walk the hose (or connect to a sprinkler), text your friends whilst doing it, simple. Suck on a beer or coffee.We compare our system to somebody using scissors to do their lawn (venturi, watering can, spray pack etc.) instead of using a cylinder mower (EZFLO), they do the same thing, but one takes a lot more time, may be uneven and the EZFLO produces a consistent quality product, all the time.